https://www.guru99.com/hide-ip-address-blocker.html 10 BEST IP Blocker Apps: How to Hide IP Address using VPN? Skip to content Home Testing Expand Agile Testing JUnit Quality Center(ALM) Bugzilla HP Loadrunner RPA Cucumber Software Testing SAP Testing Database Testing Mobile Testing Selenium ETL Testing Mantis SoapUI JMeter Postman TEST Management JIRA QTP TestLink SAP Expand ABAP CRM PI/PO APO Crystal Reports PP Beginners FICO SD Basis HANA SAPUI5 BODS HR Security Tutorial BI/BW MM Solution Manager BPC QM Successfactors CO Payroll SAP Tutorial Web Expand Apache Java PHP SQL Server AngularJS JSP PL/SQL UML ASP.NET Kotlin PostgreSQL VB.NET C Linux Python VBScript C# MariaDB ReactJS Web Services C++ MS Access Ruby & Rails WPF CodeIgniter MySQL Scala SQLite DBMS Node.js SQL Perl JavaScript Must Learn Expand Accounting Embedded Systems Operating System Algorithms Ethical Hacking PMP Android Excel Tutorial Photoshop Blockchain Go Programming Project Management Business Analyst IoT Reviews Build Website ITIL Salesforce Cloud Computing Jenkins SEO COBOL MIS Software Engineering Compiler Design Movie VBA Courses Networking VPN Big Data Expand AWS Hive Power BI Big Data Informatica Qlikview Cassandra MicroStrategy Tableau Cognos MongoDB Talend Data Warehousing NiFi ZooKeeper DevOps OBIEE Pentaho HBase Live Project Expand Live Agile Testing Live Selenium Project Live HP ALM Live Selenium 2 Live Java Project Live Security Testing Live Mobile Testing Live Testing Project Live Payment Gateway Live Testing 2 Live PHP Project Live Telecom Live Projects Hub Live UFT/QTP Testing Live Python Project Live SEO Project AI Expand Artificial Intelligence PyTorch Data Science R Programming Keras TensorFlow NLTK Blog Search Toggle Menu 10 BEST IP Blocker Apps: How to Hide IP Address using VPN? ByLawrence Williams Hours UpdatedJuly 30, 2022 What is an IP Address? An Internet Protocol address is also known as IP address. It is a numerical label which assigned to each device connected to a computer network which uses the IP for communication. IP address act as an identifier for a specific machine on a particular network. The IP address is also called IP number and internet address. IP address specifies the technical format of the addressing and packets scheme. Most networks combine IP with a TCP (Transmission Control Protocol). It also allows developing a virtual connection between a destination and a source. How to hide your IP address? Here are the ways to hide your IP address: 1) VPN–VPN is the safest and strongest way to mask IP address. It enables you to effectively hide your IP without any hassle. VPN have good security features that keep you anonymous while surfing Internet. Virtual Private Network opens the areas of the Internet that are blocked due to geo-restrictions. Check out How to hide IP address using VPN Our top recommended VPN to hide IP address Top Pick NordVPN – 9.8 ✔️ Servers: 5000+ ✔️ Supported Apps: Linux, Windows, macOS, iOS ✔️ Works with: YouTube TV, Netflix, Amazon Prime, Hulu ✔️ Money-back guarantee: 30 Days Try NordVPN 2) Tor–Tor is a browser that keeps your online activity completely anonymous. It slows down your internet when you connect it, but your IP address will still untraceable. 3) Proxy –Proxy will treat like you have a different IP address. It slows down your connection but doesn’t encrypt your activity. Proxy is not an ideal choice for torrenting. 4) Public WiFi – Public WiFi is an easy way to change your IP address. However, sometimes it vulnerable to security threats. It does not work with geo-restrictions. How to Hide IP Address Using VPN Here are the steps to hide your IP address using NordVPN: Step 1) Go to https://nordvpn.com/ Now, click the “Get NordVPN” button Step 2) NordVPN provides 3 plans: 1) 1 month, 2) 1 year, and 3) 2 years. Select 1 Month plan Step 3) Click the “Continue to Payment” button The payment page will open up Step 4) Then click on the “Download the NordVPN app” button to download NordVPN Step 5) Now, first, you need to check your current IP address. For that, you need to type “my ip address” in a google chrome search box. Step 6) You can see your IP address, In the first search result. Step 7) Select the United States country, To change your IP address. Step 8) Once you connect to United States VPN, again type “my IP address” in a google chrome search box. You can see your original IP address is replaced by a new IP address from United States. This way, you can easily hide your original IP address. Why Hide My IP Address? Here are the important reasons to hide your IP address: Prevent disclosing private information: You can hide your IP address to keep your personal or business information private. It is good that you surf the internet anonymously using IP masking. Avoid tracked by advertisers or companies: Hiding IP address is a good option to prevent tracked by online advertisers or companies. Surf internet at restricted areas: IP hiding enables you to surf the internet at restricted areas where content is highly filtered. If your country has restrictions to view the content, you can simply hide your IP and guess access to online stuff. Connecting to public places: You need to hide your IP address when connecting to public places like libraries, restaurants, or internet cafes. What is VPN? A VPN is a private network which uses a public network to connect remote sites or users together. The VPN network uses “virtual” connections routed through the internet from the enterprise’s private network or a third-party VPN service to the remote site. It is a free or paid service that keeps your web browsing secure and private over public WiFi hotspots. Following is a handpicked list of Top IP Blocker Software (VPN) with their popular features, pros, cons, and website links. The list contains both open source (free) and commercial (paid) software. IP Address Blocker | IP Hider (Free & Paid) #1 Best Overall VPN Provider NordVPN ExpressVPN Number of servers: 5,000+ 3,000+ Supported devices MacOS & iOS Windows Linux MacOS & iOS Android Windows Linux Microsoft 24/7 support ✔️ ✔️ Max connections 6 5 Free trial 30 days 30 days Reviews Excellent – 4.5 Excellent – 4.8 Today’s Best Deals 2 Year $3.30/mth 1 Year $4.92/mth 1 Month $11.95/mth 1 Year $6.67/mth 6 Month $9.99/mth 1 Month $12.95/mth Guru99 Exclusive Offer: 3 months FREE on 1-year plan Link Try Free Now Try Free Now 1) NordVPN NordVPN is IP blocker application that does not track, collect, or share your information. It provides security by encrypting send and receive data. This app helps you to prevent ads and malware. It allows you to access numerous streaming websites with no hassle. Key Specs: Supported Platforms: Linux, Windows, macOS, iOS No of Servers: 5000+ Server Countries: 59 Split Tunneling: Yes Data Allowance: Unlimited Torrenting: Yes Kill Switch: Yes Able to unblock: Netflix: Yes in US, Germany, UK, Italy, and France. No-logging policy: Yes Ip addresses: Static Simultaneous Connection: 6 Free Trial: Yes – 30 days Best for: Connect double VPN, onion over VPN servers, P2P. Pros Kill switch (automatically disconnects internet) prevents privacy compromise. Provides good security. No DNS (Domain Name System) leaks protection with double VPN. Offers fast and stable speeds. Cons Torrenting is supported for a few servers. Configuring with OpenVPN virtual private network system is not user friendly. Go to NordVPN 2) ExpressVPN ExpressVPN is IP blocker software that enables you to browse the internet securely against scammers. It offers unlimited access to music, social media, and video such that these programs never log IP addresses, browsing history, DNS queries, or traffic destination. This software offers online protection using leak proofing and encryption facility. It helps you to stay secure by hiding IP address and encrypting your network data. Express VPN provides 24/7 assistant via email as well as live chat. It allows you to pay with Bitcoin and use Tor in order to access hidden sites. ExpressVPN can encrypt user web traffic and mask IP addresses. It can effectively help you to hide your physical location. Key Specs: Supported Platforms: iOS, Android, Linux, macOS, Microsoft Windows No of Servers: 3000+ Server Countries: 94 Split Tunneling: Yes Data Allowance: Unlimited Torrenting: Yes Kill Switch: Yes Able to unblock: Netflix: Yes- US No-logging policy: Yes Ip addresses: Dynamic Simultaneous Connection: Unlimited Free Trial: Yes – 30 days Exclusive offer: Extra 3 month free on annual subscription Pros Provides good privacy of your internet activity. It keeps your privacy secure. Does not store the IP address, browsing history, traffic destination, and metadata. Allows you to choose which network devices to protect. Server speed is fast. Offers a choice of many protocols. Provides a wide range of server locations. It is easy to setup. Good customer support. Cons This IP Address Blocker software is costly compared to other programs. Not good for the advanced user who already knows about internet, IP, VPN, etc. Go to ExpressVPN 3) Surfshark Surfshark is IP blocker software that provides fast and secure access to web content. This software offers secure tunneling protocols like OpenVPN and IKEv2. It makes your location private and keeps your sensitive data secure. This software allows particular apps and websites to bypass the VPN. Protect your confidentiality by hiding your real IP address. It does not log your IP, WebRTC, and prevent DNS leaks. Surfshark allows P2P connection via VPN on certain servers. This tool can block unwanted websites without any hassle. It allows you to share your IP address with other people on the same server. This program enables you to favorite (bookmark) your location for future use. Key Specs: Supported Platforms: Mac, Windows, iOS, Linux, and Android No of Servers: 3200+ Server Countries: 65 Split Tunneling: Yes Data Allowance: Unlimited Torrenting: Yes Kill Switch: Yes Able to unblock: Netflix: Yes- US No-logging policy: Yes Ip addresses: Static Simultaneous Connection: Unlimited Free Trial: Yes – 7-day free trial Best for: Gaming, browsing, and streaming. Pros Offers secure and anonymous browsing. Supports a wide range of apps. Good customer support. Offers ideal server speed. Provides a smooth user experience. It helps you to keep your data private by using AES-256. Cons It does not offer is access to Tor via VPN. This software has a complicated setup process. Poor customer service. Weak social media presence. Go to Surfshark 4) Atlas VPN Atlas VPN allows you to discover a safer and more open internet. It offers the best-in-class WireGuard protocol to ensure secure and seamless gaming, streaming, and overall browsing experience. It enables you to access the internet from several IP addresses simultaneously. Key Specs: Supported Platforms: Mac, Windows, iOS, Android No of Servers: 750+ Server Countries: 37 Split Tunneling: Yes Data Allowance: Unlimited Torrenting: Yes Kill Switch: Yes Able to unblock: YouTube TV, Netflix, Amazon Prime, Hulu No-logging policy: Yes Ip addresses: Dynamic Simultaneous Connection: Unlimited Free Trial: Yes – 30 days Exclusive offer: Speical Offer: 3 months FREE on 3-year plan Pros It provides support for WireGuard tunneling protocol. Decent speeds during daily use. Local and faraway servers showed similar speeds. Mobile-optimized apps for Android and iOS Atlas VPN offers a high level of protection with built-in 2-factor authentication 24/7 support via email chat Cons Currently not available for Linux Does not provide any dedicated IP-addresses Go to AtlasVPN 5) IPVanish IPVanish is an IP address blocker application that provides end to end encryption environment for your network. It offers the fastest virtual private network service for a variety of smartphones. This app helps you to protect your web browsing, file sharing, and video streaming. IPVanish can automatically suggest the fastest VPN server. It allows you to switch from one server to another. This application helps you to make internet connection secure. Key Specs: Supported Platforms: Windows, iOS, Android, Mac, and FireOS No of Servers: 1300+ Server Countries: 75 Split Tunneling: Yes – in Android and FireOS. Data Allowance: Unlimited Torrenting: Yes Kill Switch: Yes Able to unblock: Netflix: Yes- US and UK only No-logging policy: Yes Ip addresses: Dynamic Simultaneous Connection: Unlimited Free Trial: Yes – 30 days Best for: High-quality VPN with good customer care service. Pros It has a good security feature. Provides varieties of protocols. You will get enough speed to stream 8K video. Available at a good price. Offers fast server speed. Decent working app. Cons It has privacy issues. Sometimes it finds unusual information of server location. Does not provide good customer support. Go to IPVanish 6) CyberGhost CyberGhost is a tool to unblock websites and enjoy your favorite content with no hassle. It is one of the best IP blocker software for streaming as well as bypassing geo-restrictions. This program helps you to surf the internet anonymously without any restriction. CyberGhost application allows you to easily access NoSpy server. It encrypts data using the latest 256-bit AES technique. This program enables you to hide IP with just one tap. It will notify when you connect to an unsecured public network. Key Specs: Supported Platforms: Windows, Mac, IOS, Android, Amazon Fire Stick, Linux, Smart TV, Android TV, Apple TV, gaming consoles No of Servers: 7000+ Server Countries: 91 Split Tunneling: Yes Data Allowance: Unlimited Torrenting: Yes Kill Switch: Yes Able to unblock: Netflix No-logging policy: Yes Ip addresses: Static Simultaneous Connection: 7 Free Trial: Yes – 1 day Best for: Accessing streaming websites having HD video. Pros Hide your IP and surf anonymously online with ease. Protect your digital identity. Break all geo-restrictions. Unblock any websites. Torrent anonymously. Protect your connections on public Wi-Fis Hide IP address through good VPN connectivity. Provides lots of locations to select from. Cons Certain servers are slow and can affect your network speed. Username and password management are complicated. Sometimes CyberGhost software crashes. Go to CyberGhost 7) ProtonVPN ProtonVPN is an Android app that enables you to use the web anonymously, unblock websites & encrypt your internet connection. This is one of the best VPN software that uses a high-speed Swiss VPN server that protects your privacy. Key Specs: Supported Platforms: Windows, Android, iOS, and macOS No of Servers: 1000+ Server Countries: 54 Split Tunneling: Yes Data Allowance: Unlimited Torrenting: Yes Kill Switch: Yes Able to unblock: Netflix: Yes in almost all countries. No-logging policy: Yes Ip addresses: Dynamic Simultaneous Connection: 10 Free Trial: Yes – 7 days Best for: Beginners and novice users. Pros It has strong encryption and protocols. Your connection is routed through VPN servers to increase privacy protection. Provides a good server speed. This free IP blocker allows you to stream BBC iPlayer. Support P2P VPN and Tor browser. Cons This IP Address Blocker for android Offers limited Asia region servers. Provides only email support. Go to ProtonVPN 8) VyprVPN VyprVPN is a VPN software that enables you to connect any devices safely without any hassle. This application helps you to safeguard your online security and privacy. It offers a kill switch that lets you quickly disconnect the server with just one click. This VPN enables you to bypass restrictions and speed limits. It allows you to access global content from any location you like. You can use this good working VPN to download, upload, and stream video websites without any hassle. Key Specs: Supported Platforms: Linux, iOS, Android, Windows, Mac No of Servers: 700+ Server Countries: 70 Split Tunneling: Yes Data Allowance: 500 MB per day Torrenting: Yes Kill Switch: Yes Able to unblock: Hulu, YouTube, HBO, Netflix No-logging policy: Yes Ip addresses: Static and dedicated IP addresses Simultaneous Connection: 5 Free Trial: Yes – 30 days Best for: Anyone looking for online privacy. Pros Good at unblocking websites and services Comprehensive customer support Allows you to use torrent. Easy to connect with real server location. Cons It has a slow server connection time. Go to VyprVPN What is Tor Browser? Tor is IP blocker software that uses the onion routing method to encapsulate in encryption layers. It is a special kind of IP blocker software that provides individuals the ability to communicate anonymously. The Tor browser can run on your computer, which helps to keep you safe on the internet. It also protects you by bouncing your communications around a distributed network. It stops other people from accessing your Internet connection and prevents websites from knowing about your physical location. Tor directs Internet traffic consisting of more than seven thousand relays. This tool helps you to hide a user’s location and also stops anyone from conducting traffic analysis or network surveillance. Features: No-logging policy: Yes Split tunneling: No Torrenting: Yes IP Addresses: Static Free Trial: Unlimited Supported platforms are: Windows, OS X, Linux, Android Pros: It is accessible universally. This browser enables you to access the deep web. It is open source. Therefore, easy to inspect code. Surf anonymously with no hassle. It better protects your privacy using three servers: Entering, middle, and at the end. Cons: Takes time to load the homepage. It blocks some web services. This IP blocker software reduces bandwidth speed. Link:https://www.torproject.org/download/ How to use Tor Browser? Tor browser is a very effective tool to block IP addresses, but it does not offer some level of security and safety like a VPN. You can use Tor browser and VPN together to maximize your privacy. There are two ways to use the Tor browser: Method 1: Tor over VPN: This method will connect your VPN first and then access the Tor network. It is very easy as you just need to connect your VPN and open the Tor browser. Tor VPNs offer built-in Tor services. For example, NordVPN is a tool that offers onion over VPN service. It allows you to connect to Tor without using a browser. Tor over VPN enables you to securely encrypt your private network before entering the Tor network. This will prevent web servers cannot access your real IP address. The disadvantage of this method is that it does not protect you from malicious nodes. Method 2: VPN over Tor This method connects to the Tor network and goes to your VPN. It is more complicated than Tor over VPN because you need to manually configure VPN. The main advantage of this method is that you are protected from the Tor exit nodes. Your traffic does not go directly from your node to your destination. It is routed to a secure VPN server. This configuration is good for communicating sensitive information. SOCKS proxy, HTTP/S proxy, and SSH proxy SOCKS proxy: SOCKS is internet protocol that routes your internet traffic through a third-party server via TCP (Transmission Control Protocol). It assigns you a brand-new IP address so that the web host cannot find your physical location. HTTP/S proxy: HTTP/S proxy comes with extensions for browsers like Chrome or Firefox. It helps you to hide your IP address when using a browser, but other programs can still use a direct connection. This proxy can hide your IP but does not encrypt your connection. SSH proxy: SSH proxy or SSH tunnel routes your internet connection through a server using a secure shell protocol. It is not fast, therefore, some websites do not work in a proper way. This proxy allows you to transmit data through a secure SSH protocol between multiple devices over the internet. You Might Like: 6 Best VPN for China – Tested & Working in Jul 2022 (FREE) How to Change My IP Address Location (Windows, Android, iPhone, Mac) How to get American Netflix in Canada (WATCH Now!) 5 Best VPN for PUBG Mobile & Lite (Tested & Working) in 2022 Best (Really FREE) VPN for FireStick TV (Jul 2022) Post navigation Report a Bug Previous Prev Next Continue Table of Contents What is an IP Address? How to hide your IP address? How to Hide IP Address Using VPN Why Hide My IP Address? What is VPN? IP Address Blocker | IP Hider (Free & Paid) What is Tor Browser? How to use Tor Browser? SOCKS proxy, HTTP/S proxy, and SSH proxy Best VPN Services Best VPN for Windows PC Best VPN for Android Best VPN for Linux Best VPN for iPhone Best VPN Deals Best VPN for Free Trial NordVPN Free Trial Nordvpn Promo Code Must Know! Best VPN Chrome Extension Best VPN to Block ISP Tracking Best Proxy Server Service FREE Proxy Server List Best IP Blocker Apps Best VPN for All Regions Best VPN for India Best VPN for USA Best VPN for Canada Best VPN for UK Best VPN for Australia Best VPNs for UAE Best VPN for China Best VPN for Japan Best VPN for South Africa Best VPN for Thailand Best VPN for Russia Best VPN for Torrenting Best VPN for Torrenting NordVPN for Torrenting Best VPNs for Tor Browser How to Torrent Safely Best VPNs for Streaming Best VPN for YouTube TV Best VPN for FireStick TV Best VPN for Kodi Best VPN for Hulu Best VPN for Popcorn Time Fix Netflix Error Change Netflix Region American Netflix in Canada American Netflix in Australia Best VPN For Roku TV Best VPNs For BBC iPlayer Install VPN on Smart TV Best VPNs for Gaming Best VPN for PUBG Mobile Pokemon GO GPS Spoof About About Us Advertise with Us Write For Us Contact Us © Copyright - Guru99 2022 Privacy Policy | Affiliate Disclaimer | ToS Scroll to top Home TestingExpand child menu Expand Agile Testing JUnit Quality Center(ALM) Bugzilla HP Loadrunner RPA Cucumber Software Testing SAP Testing Database Testing Mobile Testing Selenium ETL Testing Mantis SoapUI JMeter Postman TEST Management JIRA QTP TestLink SAPExpand child menu Expand ABAP CRM PI/PO APO Crystal Reports PP Beginners FICO SD Basis HANA SAPUI5 BODS HR Security Tutorial BI/BW MM Solution Manager BPC QM Successfactors CO Payroll SAP Tutorial WebExpand child menu Expand Apache Java PHP SQL Server AngularJS JSP PL/SQL UML ASP.NET Kotlin PostgreSQL VB.NET C Linux Python VBScript C# MariaDB ReactJS Web Services C++ MS Access Ruby & Rails WPF CodeIgniter MySQL Scala SQLite DBMS Node.js SQL Perl JavaScript Must LearnExpand child menu Expand Accounting Embedded Systems Operating System Algorithms Ethical Hacking PMP Android Excel Tutorial Photoshop Blockchain Go Programming Project Management Business Analyst IoT Reviews Build Website ITIL Salesforce Cloud Computing Jenkins SEO COBOL MIS Software Engineering Compiler Design Movie VBA Courses Networking VPN Big DataExpand child menu Expand AWS Hive Power BI Big Data Informatica Qlikview Cassandra MicroStrategy Tableau Cognos MongoDB Talend Data Warehousing NiFi ZooKeeper DevOps OBIEE Pentaho HBase Live ProjectExpand child menu Expand Live Agile Testing Live Selenium Project Live HP ALM Live Selenium 2 Live Java Project Live Security Testing Live Mobile Testing Live Testing Project Live Payment Gateway Live Testing 2 Live PHP Project Live Telecom Live Projects Hub Live UFT/QTP Testing Live Python Project Live SEO Project AIExpand child menu Expand Artificial Intelligence PyTorch Data Science R Programming Keras TensorFlow NLTK Blog Toggle Menu Close Search for: Search