https://www.guru99.com/website-monitoring-services.html 20 BEST Website Monitoring Tools Open source (Jul 2022) Skip to content Home Testing Expand Agile Testing JUnit Quality Center(ALM) Bugzilla HP Loadrunner RPA Cucumber Software Testing SAP Testing Database Testing Mobile Testing Selenium ETL Testing Mantis SoapUI JMeter Postman TEST Management JIRA QTP TestLink SAP Expand ABAP CRM PI/PO APO Crystal Reports PP Beginners FICO SD Basis HANA SAPUI5 BODS HR Security Tutorial BI/BW MM Solution Manager BPC QM Successfactors CO Payroll SAP Tutorial Web Expand Apache Java PHP SQL Server AngularJS JSP PL/SQL UML ASP.NET Kotlin PostgreSQL VB.NET C Linux Python VBScript C# MariaDB ReactJS Web Services C++ MS Access Ruby & Rails WPF CodeIgniter MySQL Scala SQLite DBMS Node.js SQL Perl JavaScript Must Learn Expand Accounting Embedded Systems Operating System Algorithms Ethical Hacking PMP Android Excel Tutorial Photoshop Blockchain Go Programming Project Management Business Analyst IoT Reviews Build Website ITIL Salesforce Cloud Computing Jenkins SEO COBOL MIS Software Engineering Compiler Design Movie VBA Courses Networking VPN Big Data Expand AWS Hive Power BI Big Data Informatica Qlikview Cassandra MicroStrategy Tableau Cognos MongoDB Talend Data Warehousing NiFi ZooKeeper DevOps OBIEE Pentaho HBase Live Project Expand Live Agile Testing Live Selenium Project Live HP ALM Live Selenium 2 Live Java Project Live Security Testing Live Mobile Testing Live Testing Project Live Payment Gateway Live Testing 2 Live PHP Project Live Telecom Live Projects Hub Live UFT/QTP Testing Live Python Project Live SEO Project AI Expand Artificial Intelligence PyTorch Data Science R Programming Keras TensorFlow NLTK Blog Search Toggle Menu 20 BEST Website Monitoring Tools Open source (Jul 2022) ByAlyssa Walker Hours UpdatedJune 21, 2022 Website monitoring tools/services help maintain uninterrupted website access, minimize downtime, optimize performance, and functionality to ensure that the site is online and running smoothly 24/7. In case of downtime, they provide alerts by email, phone call, or SMS. Best Website Monitoring Tools & Software Following is a handpicked list of Best Website Monitoring Tools, with popular features and website links. The list contains both open source(free) and commercial(paid) website monitoring software. Name Free Trial Link eG Enterprise Web Application Monitoring 30 Days Free Trial Learn More Site24x7 30 Days Free Trial Learn More Fluxguard 7 Days Free Trial Learn More ManageEngine Applications Manager 30 Days Free Trial Learn More Sematext 14 Days Free Trial (No credit card required) Learn More Datadog 14 Days Free Trial (No credit card required) Learn More Linko 14 Days Free Trial (No credit card required) Learn More 1) eG Enterprise Web Application Monitoring eG Enterprise is an application performance monitoring solution that uses synthetic simulation to monitor your critical web applications’ uptime, responsiveness, and availability. It proactively monitors your application, third-party dependencies, and the underlying infrastructure in a single console. The correlated diagnostic engine can automatically pinpoint the root-cause of any performance slowdowns. Features: Multi-cloud (AWS, Azure) support in a single console Automatically discovers your Azure and AWS topology Over 200 technologies supported out of the box User-access control and customizable dashboards for all your stakeholders Deployment: Cloud or on-premises Free trial: 30 days Pricing: Based on the number of hosts Get Free Now >> 30 Days Free Trial 2) Site24x7 Site24x7 is a SaaS-based all-in-one monitoring solution for DevOps and IT. Site24x7 website monitor tests a website from global locations, helping you measure a site’s performance as well as reduce it’s downtime. Key Features: Monitor the performance and uptime of websites and other internet services like DNS server, FTP server, REST APIs etc. from 110+ locations worldwide. Record and simulate multi-step user interactions in a real browser and optimize them. Record load time for each static resource on your website. Monitor SSL/TLS certificates, website defacement etc. and secure your website. Get instant alerts via email, SMS or phone call. Get Free Now >> 30 Days Free Trial 3) Fluxguard Fluxguard provides next generation uptime and defacement monitoring. Engineered for the US military, Fluxguard’s multi-vector downtime protection alerts you to breaking changes to content, code, and design. Features: Detects downtime with a full Chrome browser that loads all images, Javascript, CSS Monitors and alerts changes to HTML, text, APIs, network activity Multiple screenshot comparisons detect pixel-level changes Google Lighthouse audits look for performance issues Network change detection spots PII exfiltration Sequence multi-step, multi-page synthetic transactions to detect errors in registration, cart, login flow Machine Learning provides advanced defacement protection Get Free Now >> 7 Days Free Trial 4) ManageEngine Applications Manager ManageEngine Applications Manager enables you to monitor & track all aspects affecting the performance of websites. It provides four different monitors (URL monitor, URL Sequence Monitor, Website Content Monitor, and Real Browser Monitor) for dynamic monitoring of websites. Features: Monitor the performance of a single webpage or sequence of webpages. Monitor critical page workflows and test applications before launch. Track unauthorized content changes. Simulate & analyze end user experience and measure website performance from multiple locations. Identify and resolve issues faster with automated application discovery, tracing and diagnostics(ADTD). Anticipate future resource utilization and growth with machine learning enabled analytics. Get Free Now >> 30 Days Free Trial 5) Sematext Sematext offers a real user monitoring (RUM) solution, Sematext Experience, and a synthetic monitoring tool, Synthetics that provide end-to-end visibility for faster troubleshooting and optimal user experience. Features: A unified location for all your logs, metrics, and events Identify resources & requests with the biggest negative impact on your website performance Real-time alerts and debugging solutions Support for all major frameworks Very well documented features Get Free Now >> 14 Days Free Trial 6) Datadog Get immediate insight into your website performance with Datadog Real User Monitoring and Synthetic Monitoring. Features: Proactively resolve issues before any users are impacted with fully hosted, automated tests for critical business transactions and user journeys. Identify user behavior and product usage insights with customizable dashboards. Minimize alert fatigue and false-positives with machine-learning powered alerts. Spend more time focused on building features rather than fixing brittle tests with self-maintaining browser tests. Easily understand if user-facing incidents are due to frontend or backend errors. Get Free Now >> 14 Days Free Trial 7) Linko Linko is a reliable website monitoring tool that tracks overall health and performance of your website. It is an advanced tool that keeps a check on your website’s SSL certificate health, broken links, regularly monitors your site’s availability in different regions of the world, and notifies you two weeks before your domain expires. Also, you can choose to get reports on any problem that occurs with your website. Features: Regular monitoring of broken links, domain, and SSL certificate. Servers in many location all over the globe. Efficient crawlers with different crawling speeds. Intuitive UI and no useless functions. Free trial: 14 days Get Free Now >> 14 Days Free Trial 8) Pingdom Pingdom is a website uptime monitoring tool that is dedicated to making the web faster and more reliable. With the help of this tool, customers get alerted about any issue so that they can focus on their daily business. Features: It examines all parts of a web page This software provides a performance overview. You can trace your performance history It allows you to test from multiple locations. It can track and analyze the load time of website critical pages. You can filter out false alters. Pingdom provides REST API integration. Get Free Now >> 30 Days Free Trial 9) Web Performance Monitor Web Performance Monitor by Solarwinds helps you troubleshoot internal and external app performance issues from a single dashboard. You can use this tool to customize the web-based performance dashboards, charts, and views. Features: You can monitor performance from multiple locations. It provides a detailed load-time report. You will get complete website performance monitoring for better visibility. It offers a browser-related transaction recorder. You can track any website or app inside or outside the firewall. It enables you to monitor synthetic transactions continuously Get Free Now >> 30 Days Free Trial 10) StatusCake StatusCake is a website uptime monitoring tool that sends instant alerts when a user’s website goes down. It can also provide alerts when any technical problem like being slow to load found. Features: You can test website availability from over 28 countries. Provide domain and server monitoring services. It analyzes the speed at which your website loads. You can renew your certificate using SSL monitoring of StatusCake. It ensures that the website is not infected with viruses, trojans, or any other threats. You will receive a detailed report in email. It has website testing locations in 48 places. Get Free Now >> 7 Days Free Trial 11) Paessler Website Monitoring Paessler Website Monitoring is a tool that can monitor the availability of site 365 per year. This application can check the load time of your website. Features: It ensures that your website run smoothly with no hassle. This application can monitor more than one URLs with ease. It has built in alarm. Paessler can analyze website up time. It can monitor mail, database, and mail server. Get Free Now >> 30 Days Free Trial 12) Updown Updown is an online uptime monitoring tool that checks website status periodically by sending an HTTP request to any URL. If the website is not responding correctly, then it notifies you by SMS or email. Features: It offers multilingual supports. Updown provides API to build a custom integration. It conforms to the downtime from a range of locations. This software matches the presence of string instead of HTTP status. You will receive alerts for expiring soon or invalid certificates. Get Free Now >> 13) Uptime Uptime is software that checks whether your website is down or not. This software will give you an alert by email, phone call, or SMS if your website is down. It checks your website availability from 30+ different locations spread across six continents. Features: It provides detailed server report time daily, weekly, or monthly. It checks the website for the virus. This software has the capability to monitor HTTP(s), API, TCP, DNS, and real user monitoring. You can develop a custom app or develop an app from our list of projects. It provides a range of integration, including Twitter and slack. Link: https://uptime.com 14) SmartBear SmartBear is a tool for application performance monitoring, software testing and API management, and software development. It has a network of 350+ private monitoring options. Features: It detects performance anomalies for websites or web applications. This tool helps you to analyze multi-step API transactions without writing code. It monitors and reports on SLA (Service-Level Agreement) requirements. Provides mobile monitoring for checking the performance of web apps, responsive design, and mobile-enabled sites. It enhances mobility by monitoring cloud-based applications. Link: https://smartbear.com/product/alertsite/overview/ 15) Uptrends Uptrends is an uptime monitoring tool to control the performance, uptime, and functionality of your websites, servers, and APIs. Features: The tool supports various protocol technology for website and server monitoring needs including, SMTP, POP3, IMAP, HTTP/HTTPS, FTP, SQL, and MySQL. Automatically sends emails that contain dashboard reports in PDF or excel file to the recipient you have chosen You can monitor your API uptime and set up API calls to cross-check its response data. This online application can also monitor multi-step transactions such as login, search, shopping carts, and forms. It automatically identifies web performance issues in browsers like IE, Chrome, and Firefox. Link: https://www.uptrends.com 16) Host-Tracker.com Host Tracker is a comprehensive web monitoring tool that enables you to see a weak and strong website point. This tool also helps you to identify site response time and page speed. Features: You can check the availability of the website from more than 140 locations. It allows you to download the final report in PDF, XML, or CSV format. You can get notification of problems through Skype, email, voice call, or hangouts. This tool can monitor domain and d security certificate expiring. Host-tracker automatically pauses your Google Ads if your website is down. You can check domain or IP is blacklisted or not. Link: https://www.host-tracker.com 17) Freshworks Freshworks is a cloud-based solution that can monitor more than 50 URLs from 10 global locations. It gives protection from the false alerts. This tool helps you to get alters without login access. Features: It provides instant downtime alerts. You can communicate the status of your web service and incidents with customers in real time. More than 30 users receive instant weekly reports and downtime alerts. It provides multi-channel notification, including Slack, SMS, Twilio, or Email. This tool can analyze URL, UDP, TCP ports, DNS, etc. Freshworks allows you to add customer troubleshooting instructions for each and every check. Link: https://www.freshworks.com/website-monitoring/ 18) Uptimerobot Uptime Robot is a software used to monitor websites. It monitors your websites every 5-minute intervals and alerts you if your sites are down. Features: It can check port, ping, and HTTP(s). You can view uptime, downtime as well as response time. It enables you to ignore downtimes You can verify downtime from numerous locations. Uptimerobot enables you to perform monitoring tasks with REST API. This application allows you to share statistics with visitors or teammates. You can specify a period not to get monitored. Link: https://uptimerobot.com 19) Siteuptime Siteuptime is a cloud-based application that checks your website from more than 8 different locations. This tool supports multiple server monitoring. Features: It provides a monthly report that can be viewed online anytime through the account control panel. You can monitor FTP, HTTP, POP3, SMTP, and FTP. It has a graphical button icon using which you can display your monitoring uptime on any website. It allows you to change the alert failure limit. You can publically display monitoring statistics. This app allows you to send alerts via email. Link: https://www.siteuptime.com 20) AppBeat AppBeat is a tool for monitoring websites and servers. It helps you to see if your services are unresponsive or have any downtime. Features: It checks for a valid HTTP(S) response. This tool provides TLS or SSL monitoring. You can test your email server with POP3, IMAP, or SMTP protocols. It sends a ping request to the server to check that it is working correctly or not. You can check connectivity for port using UDP or TCP protocol. AppBeat analyze domain server entries to see that your addresses are correctly resolved. Link: https://www.appbeat.io 21) Monitis Monitis is an application that helps you to optimize your website and avoid system downtimes. It also continually checks the health of your website. Features: It provides real-time reporting This tool monitors web transactions. It can detect and resolve the performance issue of any website. Monitis can analyze server health and network performance. It provides an alert via Twitter, SMS, or Email. This tool supports TCP protocols like SMTP, SIP, HTTP, UDP, etc. Link: https://www.monitis.com 22) New Relic New Relic APM is the uptime monitoring DevOps tool. This analytics product helps you to check the performance of the application and provide real time data. Features: Monitor performance of External Services It allows full-stack alerting Organize, visualize, evaluate with in-depth analytics Provide a precise picture of dynamically changing systems. The external service’s dashboard offers charts with response time Create customized queries on metric data and names Principal Transactions monitor feature to manage and track all the critical business or company transactions. Link: https://www.newrelic.com 23) Appdynamics AppDynamics is application performance management software. It detects anomalies and keeps your business running smoothly. This software enables you to visualize revenue paths with customer and app experience in order to fix app issues. Features: It allows you to monitor every critical click, swipe, and tap. This tool uses machine learning in order to automate anomaly detection. It provides enterprise-grade security. You can install, configure, administrate, and manage. It can be deployed on-premises or as SaaS. Appdynamics supports public, private, or multi-cloud applications. Link: https://www.appdynamics.com FAQ ❓ What is Uptime monitoring services? Uptime monitoring services are online applications that help you measure the reliability/availability of a domain, server, website, TCP, DNS, and HTTP(S). 🚀 Which are the Best Website Monitoring Tools? Below are some of the Best Website Monitoring Tools: eG Enterprise Web Application Monitoring Site24x7 Fluxguard ManageEngine Applications Manager Sematext Datadog Linko Pingdom Web Performance Monitor StatusCake Paessler Website Monitoring ⚡ Which factors should you consider while selecting a Best Website Monitoring Service? Don’t slog to choose the right tool. Get smart. Consider the following factors before you decide. Quality of Customer support. License Cost, if applicable In the case of an outsourcing project, you need to factor customer/Client preference of the website monitoring software. The cost involved in training employees on the tool. Hardware/Software requirements of the website monitor tool Consider the security options offered by software providers. Support and Update policy of the web monitoring tool vendor. Reviews of the company. Post navigation Report a Bug Previous Prev Next Continue Table of contents Best Website Monitoring Tools & Software 1) eG Enterprise Web Application Monitoring 2) Site24x7 3) Fluxguard 4) ManageEngine Applications Manager 5) Sematext 6) Datadog 7) Linko 8) Pingdom 9) Web Performance Monitor 10) StatusCake Top Tutorials About About Us Advertise with Us Write For Us Contact Us Python Testing Hacking Career Suggestion SAP Career Suggestion Tool Software Testing as a Career Interesting eBook Blog Quiz SAP eBook SAP Java SQL Execute online Execute Java Online Execute Javascript Execute HTML Execute Python Selenium Cryptocurrency VPNs © Copyright - Guru99 2022 Privacy Policy | Affiliate Disclaimer | ToS Scroll to top Home TestingExpand child menu Expand Agile Testing JUnit Quality Center(ALM) Bugzilla HP Loadrunner RPA Cucumber Software Testing SAP Testing Database Testing Mobile Testing Selenium ETL Testing Mantis SoapUI JMeter Postman TEST Management JIRA QTP TestLink SAPExpand child menu Expand ABAP CRM PI/PO APO Crystal Reports PP Beginners FICO SD Basis HANA SAPUI5 BODS HR Security Tutorial BI/BW MM Solution Manager BPC QM Successfactors CO Payroll SAP Tutorial WebExpand child menu Expand Apache Java PHP SQL Server AngularJS JSP PL/SQL UML ASP.NET Kotlin PostgreSQL VB.NET C Linux Python VBScript C# MariaDB ReactJS Web Services C++ MS Access Ruby & Rails WPF CodeIgniter MySQL Scala SQLite DBMS Node.js SQL Perl JavaScript Must LearnExpand child menu Expand Accounting Embedded Systems Operating System Algorithms Ethical Hacking PMP Android Excel Tutorial Photoshop Blockchain Go Programming Project Management Business Analyst IoT Reviews Build Website ITIL Salesforce Cloud Computing Jenkins SEO COBOL MIS Software Engineering Compiler Design Movie VBA Courses Networking VPN Big DataExpand child menu Expand AWS Hive Power BI Big Data Informatica Qlikview Cassandra MicroStrategy Tableau Cognos MongoDB Talend Data Warehousing NiFi ZooKeeper DevOps OBIEE Pentaho HBase Live ProjectExpand child menu Expand Live Agile Testing Live Selenium Project Live HP ALM Live Selenium 2 Live Java Project Live Security Testing Live Mobile Testing Live Testing Project Live Payment Gateway Live Testing 2 Live PHP Project Live Telecom Live Projects Hub Live UFT/QTP Testing Live Python Project Live SEO Project AIExpand child menu Expand Artificial Intelligence PyTorch Data Science R Programming Keras TensorFlow NLTK Blog Toggle Menu Close Search for: Searchhttps://www.guru99.com/website-monitoring-services.html 20 BEST Website Monitoring Tools Open source (Jul 2022) Skip to content Home Testing Expand Agile Testing JUnit Quality Center(ALM) Bugzilla HP Loadrunner RPA Cucumber Software Testing SAP Testing Database Testing Mobile Testing Selenium ETL Testing Mantis SoapUI JMeter Postman TEST Management JIRA QTP TestLink SAP Expand ABAP CRM PI/PO APO Crystal Reports PP Beginners FICO SD Basis HANA SAPUI5 BODS HR Security Tutorial BI/BW MM Solution Manager BPC QM Successfactors CO Payroll SAP Tutorial Web Expand Apache Java PHP SQL Server AngularJS JSP PL/SQL UML ASP.NET Kotlin PostgreSQL VB.NET C Linux Python VBScript C# MariaDB ReactJS Web Services C++ MS Access Ruby & Rails WPF CodeIgniter MySQL Scala SQLite DBMS Node.js SQL Perl JavaScript Must Learn Expand Accounting Embedded Systems Operating System Algorithms Ethical Hacking PMP Android Excel Tutorial Photoshop Blockchain Go Programming Project Management Business Analyst IoT Reviews Build Website ITIL Salesforce Cloud Computing Jenkins SEO COBOL MIS Software Engineering Compiler Design Movie VBA Courses Networking VPN Big Data Expand AWS Hive Power BI Big Data Informatica Qlikview Cassandra MicroStrategy Tableau Cognos MongoDB Talend Data Warehousing NiFi ZooKeeper DevOps OBIEE Pentaho HBase Live Project Expand Live Agile Testing Live Selenium Project Live HP ALM Live Selenium 2 Live Java Project Live Security Testing Live Mobile Testing Live Testing Project Live Payment Gateway Live Testing 2 Live PHP Project Live Telecom Live Projects Hub Live UFT/QTP Testing Live Python Project Live SEO Project AI Expand Artificial Intelligence PyTorch Data Science R Programming Keras TensorFlow NLTK Blog Search Toggle Menu 20 BEST Website Monitoring Tools Open source (Jul 2022) ByAlyssa Walker Hours UpdatedJune 21, 2022 Website monitoring tools/services help maintain uninterrupted website access, minimize downtime, optimize performance, and functionality to ensure that the site is online and running smoothly 24/7. In case of downtime, they provide alerts by email, phone call, or SMS. Best Website Monitoring Tools & Software Following is a handpicked list of Best Website Monitoring Tools, with popular features and website links. The list contains both open source(free) and commercial(paid) website monitoring software. Name Free Trial Link eG Enterprise Web Application Monitoring 30 Days Free Trial Learn More Site24x7 30 Days Free Trial Learn More Fluxguard 7 Days Free Trial Learn More ManageEngine Applications Manager 30 Days Free Trial Learn More Sematext 14 Days Free Trial (No credit card required) Learn More Datadog 14 Days Free Trial (No credit card required) Learn More Linko 14 Days Free Trial (No credit card required) Learn More 1) eG Enterprise Web Application Monitoring eG Enterprise is an application performance monitoring solution that uses synthetic simulation to monitor your critical web applications’ uptime, responsiveness, and availability. It proactively monitors your application, third-party dependencies, and the underlying infrastructure in a single console. The correlated diagnostic engine can automatically pinpoint the root-cause of any performance slowdowns. Features: Multi-cloud (AWS, Azure) support in a single console Automatically discovers your Azure and AWS topology Over 200 technologies supported out of the box User-access control and customizable dashboards for all your stakeholders Deployment: Cloud or on-premises Free trial: 30 days Pricing: Based on the number of hosts Get Free Now >> 30 Days Free Trial 2) Site24x7 Site24x7 is a SaaS-based all-in-one monitoring solution for DevOps and IT. Site24x7 website monitor tests a website from global locations, helping you measure a site’s performance as well as reduce it’s downtime. Key Features: Monitor the performance and uptime of websites and other internet services like DNS server, FTP server, REST APIs etc. from 110+ locations worldwide. Record and simulate multi-step user interactions in a real browser and optimize them. Record load time for each static resource on your website. Monitor SSL/TLS certificates, website defacement etc. and secure your website. Get instant alerts via email, SMS or phone call. Get Free Now >> 30 Days Free Trial 3) Fluxguard Fluxguard provides next generation uptime and defacement monitoring. Engineered for the US military, Fluxguard’s multi-vector downtime protection alerts you to breaking changes to content, code, and design. Features: Detects downtime with a full Chrome browser that loads all images, Javascript, CSS Monitors and alerts changes to HTML, text, APIs, network activity Multiple screenshot comparisons detect pixel-level changes Google Lighthouse audits look for performance issues Network change detection spots PII exfiltration Sequence multi-step, multi-page synthetic transactions to detect errors in registration, cart, login flow Machine Learning provides advanced defacement protection Get Free Now >> 7 Days Free Trial 4) ManageEngine Applications Manager ManageEngine Applications Manager enables you to monitor & track all aspects affecting the performance of websites. It provides four different monitors (URL monitor, URL Sequence Monitor, Website Content Monitor, and Real Browser Monitor) for dynamic monitoring of websites. Features: Monitor the performance of a single webpage or sequence of webpages. Monitor critical page workflows and test applications before launch. Track unauthorized content changes. Simulate & analyze end user experience and measure website performance from multiple locations. Identify and resolve issues faster with automated application discovery, tracing and diagnostics(ADTD). Anticipate future resource utilization and growth with machine learning enabled analytics. Get Free Now >> 30 Days Free Trial 5) Sematext Sematext offers a real user monitoring (RUM) solution, Sematext Experience, and a synthetic monitoring tool, Synthetics that provide end-to-end visibility for faster troubleshooting and optimal user experience. Features: A unified location for all your logs, metrics, and events Identify resources & requests with the biggest negative impact on your website performance Real-time alerts and debugging solutions Support for all major frameworks Very well documented features Get Free Now >> 14 Days Free Trial 6) Datadog Get immediate insight into your website performance with Datadog Real User Monitoring and Synthetic Monitoring. Features: Proactively resolve issues before any users are impacted with fully hosted, automated tests for critical business transactions and user journeys. Identify user behavior and product usage insights with customizable dashboards. Minimize alert fatigue and false-positives with machine-learning powered alerts. Spend more time focused on building features rather than fixing brittle tests with self-maintaining browser tests. Easily understand if user-facing incidents are due to frontend or backend errors. Get Free Now >> 14 Days Free Trial 7) Linko Linko is a reliable website monitoring tool that tracks overall health and performance of your website. It is an advanced tool that keeps a check on your website’s SSL certificate health, broken links, regularly monitors your site’s availability in different regions of the world, and notifies you two weeks before your domain expires. Also, you can choose to get reports on any problem that occurs with your website. Features: Regular monitoring of broken links, domain, and SSL certificate. Servers in many location all over the globe. Efficient crawlers with different crawling speeds. Intuitive UI and no useless functions. Free trial: 14 days Get Free Now >> 14 Days Free Trial 8) Pingdom Pingdom is a website uptime monitoring tool that is dedicated to making the web faster and more reliable. With the help of this tool, customers get alerted about any issue so that they can focus on their daily business. Features: It examines all parts of a web page This software provides a performance overview. You can trace your performance history It allows you to test from multiple locations. It can track and analyze the load time of website critical pages. You can filter out false alters. Pingdom provides REST API integration. Get Free Now >> 30 Days Free Trial 9) Web Performance Monitor Web Performance Monitor by Solarwinds helps you troubleshoot internal and external app performance issues from a single dashboard. You can use this tool to customize the web-based performance dashboards, charts, and views. Features: You can monitor performance from multiple locations. It provides a detailed load-time report. You will get complete website performance monitoring for better visibility. It offers a browser-related transaction recorder. You can track any website or app inside or outside the firewall. It enables you to monitor synthetic transactions continuously Get Free Now >> 30 Days Free Trial 10) StatusCake StatusCake is a website uptime monitoring tool that sends instant alerts when a user’s website goes down. It can also provide alerts when any technical problem like being slow to load found. Features: You can test website availability from over 28 countries. Provide domain and server monitoring services. It analyzes the speed at which your website loads. You can renew your certificate using SSL monitoring of StatusCake. It ensures that the website is not infected with viruses, trojans, or any other threats. You will receive a detailed report in email. It has website testing locations in 48 places. Get Free Now >> 7 Days Free Trial 11) Paessler Website Monitoring Paessler Website Monitoring is a tool that can monitor the availability of site 365 per year. This application can check the load time of your website. Features: It ensures that your website run smoothly with no hassle. This application can monitor more than one URLs with ease. It has built in alarm. Paessler can analyze website up time. It can monitor mail, database, and mail server. Get Free Now >> 30 Days Free Trial 12) Updown Updown is an online uptime monitoring tool that checks website status periodically by sending an HTTP request to any URL. If the website is not responding correctly, then it notifies you by SMS or email. Features: It offers multilingual supports. Updown provides API to build a custom integration. It conforms to the downtime from a range of locations. This software matches the presence of string instead of HTTP status. You will receive alerts for expiring soon or invalid certificates. Get Free Now >> 13) Uptime Uptime is software that checks whether your website is down or not. This software will give you an alert by email, phone call, or SMS if your website is down. It checks your website availability from 30+ different locations spread across six continents. Features: It provides detailed server report time daily, weekly, or monthly. It checks the website for the virus. This software has the capability to monitor HTTP(s), API, TCP, DNS, and real user monitoring. You can develop a custom app or develop an app from our list of projects. It provides a range of integration, including Twitter and slack. Link: https://uptime.com 14) SmartBear SmartBear is a tool for application performance monitoring, software testing and API management, and software development. It has a network of 350+ private monitoring options. Features: It detects performance anomalies for websites or web applications. This tool helps you to analyze multi-step API transactions without writing code. It monitors and reports on SLA (Service-Level Agreement) requirements. Provides mobile monitoring for checking the performance of web apps, responsive design, and mobile-enabled sites. It enhances mobility by monitoring cloud-based applications. Link: https://smartbear.com/product/alertsite/overview/ 15) Uptrends Uptrends is an uptime monitoring tool to control the performance, uptime, and functionality of your websites, servers, and APIs. Features: The tool supports various protocol technology for website and server monitoring needs including, SMTP, POP3, IMAP, HTTP/HTTPS, FTP, SQL, and MySQL. Automatically sends emails that contain dashboard reports in PDF or excel file to the recipient you have chosen You can monitor your API uptime and set up API calls to cross-check its response data. This online application can also monitor multi-step transactions such as login, search, shopping carts, and forms. It automatically identifies web performance issues in browsers like IE, Chrome, and Firefox. Link: https://www.uptrends.com 16) Host-Tracker.com Host Tracker is a comprehensive web monitoring tool that enables you to see a weak and strong website point. This tool also helps you to identify site response time and page speed. Features: You can check the availability of the website from more than 140 locations. It allows you to download the final report in PDF, XML, or CSV format. You can get notification of problems through Skype, email, voice call, or hangouts. This tool can monitor domain and d security certificate expiring. Host-tracker automatically pauses your Google Ads if your website is down. You can check domain or IP is blacklisted or not. Link: https://www.host-tracker.com 17) Freshworks Freshworks is a cloud-based solution that can monitor more than 50 URLs from 10 global locations. It gives protection from the false alerts. This tool helps you to get alters without login access. Features: It provides instant downtime alerts. You can communicate the status of your web service and incidents with customers in real time. More than 30 users receive instant weekly reports and downtime alerts. It provides multi-channel notification, including Slack, SMS, Twilio, or Email. This tool can analyze URL, UDP, TCP ports, DNS, etc. Freshworks allows you to add customer troubleshooting instructions for each and every check. Link: https://www.freshworks.com/website-monitoring/ 18) Uptimerobot Uptime Robot is a software used to monitor websites. It monitors your websites every 5-minute intervals and alerts you if your sites are down. Features: It can check port, ping, and HTTP(s). You can view uptime, downtime as well as response time. It enables you to ignore downtimes You can verify downtime from numerous locations. Uptimerobot enables you to perform monitoring tasks with REST API. This application allows you to share statistics with visitors or teammates. You can specify a period not to get monitored. Link: https://uptimerobot.com 19) Siteuptime Siteuptime is a cloud-based application that checks your website from more than 8 different locations. This tool supports multiple server monitoring. Features: It provides a monthly report that can be viewed online anytime through the account control panel. You can monitor FTP, HTTP, POP3, SMTP, and FTP. It has a graphical button icon using which you can display your monitoring uptime on any website. It allows you to change the alert failure limit. You can publically display monitoring statistics. This app allows you to send alerts via email. Link: https://www.siteuptime.com 20) AppBeat AppBeat is a tool for monitoring websites and servers. It helps you to see if your services are unresponsive or have any downtime. Features: It checks for a valid HTTP(S) response. This tool provides TLS or SSL monitoring. You can test your email server with POP3, IMAP, or SMTP protocols. It sends a ping request to the server to check that it is working correctly or not. You can check connectivity for port using UDP or TCP protocol. AppBeat analyze domain server entries to see that your addresses are correctly resolved. Link: https://www.appbeat.io 21) Monitis Monitis is an application that helps you to optimize your website and avoid system downtimes. It also continually checks the health of your website. Features: It provides real-time reporting This tool monitors web transactions. It can detect and resolve the performance issue of any website. Monitis can analyze server health and network performance. It provides an alert via Twitter, SMS, or Email. This tool supports TCP protocols like SMTP, SIP, HTTP, UDP, etc. Link: https://www.monitis.com 22) New Relic New Relic APM is the uptime monitoring DevOps tool. This analytics product helps you to check the performance of the application and provide real time data. Features: Monitor performance of External Services It allows full-stack alerting Organize, visualize, evaluate with in-depth analytics Provide a precise picture of dynamically changing systems. The external service’s dashboard offers charts with response time Create customized queries on metric data and names Principal Transactions monitor feature to manage and track all the critical business or company transactions. Link: https://www.newrelic.com 23) Appdynamics AppDynamics is application performance management software. It detects anomalies and keeps your business running smoothly. This software enables you to visualize revenue paths with customer and app experience in order to fix app issues. Features: It allows you to monitor every critical click, swipe, and tap. This tool uses machine learning in order to automate anomaly detection. It provides enterprise-grade security. You can install, configure, administrate, and manage. It can be deployed on-premises or as SaaS. Appdynamics supports public, private, or multi-cloud applications. Link: https://www.appdynamics.com FAQ ❓ What is Uptime monitoring services? Uptime monitoring services are online applications that help you measure the reliability/availability of a domain, server, website, TCP, DNS, and HTTP(S). 🚀 Which are the Best Website Monitoring Tools? Below are some of the Best Website Monitoring Tools: eG Enterprise Web Application Monitoring Site24x7 Fluxguard ManageEngine Applications Manager Sematext Datadog Linko Pingdom Web Performance Monitor StatusCake Paessler Website Monitoring ⚡ Which factors should you consider while selecting a Best Website Monitoring Service? Don’t slog to choose the right tool. Get smart. Consider the following factors before you decide. Quality of Customer support. License Cost, if applicable In the case of an outsourcing project, you need to factor customer/Client preference of the website monitoring software. The cost involved in training employees on the tool. Hardware/Software requirements of the website monitor tool Consider the security options offered by software providers. Support and Update policy of the web monitoring tool vendor. Reviews of the company. Post navigation Report a Bug Previous Prev Next Continue Table of contents Best Website Monitoring Tools & Software 1) eG Enterprise Web Application Monitoring 2) Site24x7 3) Fluxguard 4) ManageEngine Applications Manager 5) Sematext 6) Datadog 7) Linko 8) Pingdom 9) Web Performance Monitor 10) StatusCake Top Tutorials About About Us Advertise with Us Write For Us Contact Us Python Testing Hacking Career Suggestion SAP Career Suggestion Tool Software Testing as a Career Interesting eBook Blog Quiz SAP eBook SAP Java SQL Execute online Execute Java Online Execute Javascript Execute HTML Execute Python Selenium Cryptocurrency VPNs © Copyright - Guru99 2022 Privacy Policy | Affiliate Disclaimer | ToS Scroll to top Home TestingExpand child menu Expand Agile Testing JUnit Quality Center(ALM) Bugzilla HP Loadrunner RPA Cucumber Software Testing SAP Testing Database Testing Mobile Testing Selenium ETL Testing Mantis SoapUI JMeter Postman TEST Management JIRA QTP TestLink SAPExpand child menu Expand ABAP CRM PI/PO APO Crystal Reports PP Beginners FICO SD Basis HANA SAPUI5 BODS HR Security Tutorial BI/BW MM Solution Manager BPC QM Successfactors CO Payroll SAP Tutorial WebExpand child menu Expand Apache Java PHP SQL Server AngularJS JSP PL/SQL UML ASP.NET Kotlin PostgreSQL VB.NET C Linux Python VBScript C# MariaDB ReactJS Web Services C++ MS Access Ruby & Rails WPF CodeIgniter MySQL Scala SQLite DBMS Node.js SQL Perl JavaScript Must LearnExpand child menu Expand Accounting Embedded Systems Operating System Algorithms Ethical Hacking PMP Android Excel Tutorial Photoshop Blockchain Go Programming Project Management Business Analyst IoT Reviews Build Website ITIL Salesforce Cloud Computing Jenkins SEO COBOL MIS Software Engineering Compiler Design Movie VBA Courses Networking VPN Big DataExpand child menu Expand AWS Hive Power BI Big Data Informatica Qlikview Cassandra MicroStrategy Tableau Cognos MongoDB Talend Data Warehousing NiFi ZooKeeper DevOps OBIEE Pentaho HBase Live ProjectExpand child menu Expand Live Agile Testing Live Selenium Project Live HP ALM Live Selenium 2 Live Java Project Live Security Testing Live Mobile Testing Live Testing Project Live Payment Gateway Live Testing 2 Live PHP Project Live Telecom Live Projects Hub Live UFT/QTP Testing Live Python Project Live SEO Project AIExpand child menu Expand Artificial Intelligence PyTorch Data Science R Programming Keras TensorFlow NLTK Blog Toggle Menu Close Search for: Search