https://www.guru99.com/anime-websites-watch-online-free.html 20 FREE Anime Websites to Watch the Best Anime Online Skip to content Home Testing Expand Agile Testing JUnit Quality Center(ALM) Bugzilla HP Loadrunner RPA Cucumber Software Testing SAP Testing Database Testing Mobile Testing Selenium ETL Testing Mantis SoapUI JMeter Postman TEST Management JIRA QTP TestLink SAP Expand ABAP CRM PI/PO APO Crystal Reports PP Beginners FICO SD Basis HANA SAPUI5 BODS HR Security Tutorial BI/BW MM Solution Manager BPC QM Successfactors CO Payroll SAP Tutorial Web Expand Apache Java PHP SQL Server AngularJS JSP PL/SQL UML ASP.NET Kotlin PostgreSQL VB.NET C Linux Python VBScript C# MariaDB ReactJS Web Services C++ MS Access Ruby & Rails WPF CodeIgniter MySQL Scala SQLite DBMS Node.js SQL Perl JavaScript Must Learn Expand Accounting Embedded Systems Operating System Algorithms Ethical Hacking PMP Android Excel Tutorial Photoshop Blockchain Go Programming Project Management Business Analyst IoT Reviews Build Website ITIL Salesforce Cloud Computing Jenkins SEO COBOL MIS Software Engineering Compiler Design Movie VBA Courses Networking VPN Big Data Expand AWS Hive Power BI Big Data Informatica Qlikview Cassandra MicroStrategy Tableau Cognos MongoDB Talend Data Warehousing NiFi ZooKeeper DevOps OBIEE Pentaho HBase Live Project Expand Live Agile Testing Live Selenium Project Live HP ALM Live Selenium 2 Live Java Project Live Security Testing Live Mobile Testing Live Testing Project Live Payment Gateway Live Testing 2 Live PHP Project Live Telecom Live Projects Hub Live UFT/QTP Testing Live Python Project Live SEO Project AI Expand Artificial Intelligence PyTorch Data Science R Programming Keras TensorFlow NLTK Blog Search Toggle Menu 20 FREE Anime Websites to Watch the Best Anime Online ByAmanda Henderson Hours UpdatedJuly 15, 2022 Anime is one of the most popular genres of entertainment today, and for a good reason. It’s full of action, adventure, and suspense and always entertaining. Many such sites enable you to filter anime by season, year, quality, and language. Following is a handpicked list of the Safest websites to watch or download your favorite anime movies, cartoons, and TV shows online for free in ultra-HD quality. Top Anime Streaming Sites to Watch Anime Online Anime Site Regions VPN friendly Link Hulu Worldwide Yes Watch Now Contv USA Yes Watch Now Crunchyroll USA, Philippines, India, UK, Canada, Australia, etc. Yes Watch Now Amazon Anime Worldwide Yes Watch Now 9anime USA, Philippines, India, UK, Canada, Australia, and more. Yes Watch Now DIRECTV Worldwide Yes Watch Now Animedao USA, Philippines, India, UK, Canada, Singapore, and more. Yes Watch Now Gogoanime USA, Philippines, India, UK, Canada, Singapore, etc. Yes Watch Now Masterani Worldwide Yes Watch Now Kissanime USA, Philippines, India, UK, Canada, Australia, and more. Yes Watch Now Attention Anime Users: Read before you continue Anime is fun to watch but could also get you into legal trouble if caught streaming free Cartoons. Anime users are strongly advised to always connect a VPN while streaming online. A good Anime VPN hides your identity, bypasses government surveillance, geo-blocked content, and ISP throttling (which also helps in buffer-free streaming). We use NordVPN, which is the fastest and most secure VPN. It is very easy to install on any device, including Android, iPhone, or Smart TV. You grab a 2-Year Deal and save 65% on its annual plans. Also, it comes with a 30-day money-back guarantee. If you are not satisfied, you can always ask for a refund. Click HERE to Grab a 2-Year Deal and save 65% on NordVPN. Legal Disclaimer: This article is purely educational. Guru99 doesn’t own, host, operate, resell, or distribute any of these sites/apps, tools, or services. The page contains some unverified listings, and we are not certain whether they hold legal licenses to distribute the content. Guru99 does not verify the legality of each app/service in all regions. Do your due diligence if you use any unverified sites, apps, or services; only content is available in the public domain. The end-user shall be solely responsible for the media access. We do not encourage illegal downloads of any copyrighted content. Use only legal methods. List of the Best Anime Websites to Watch: Top Anime Streaming Sites to Watch Anime Online 1) Hulu 2) Contv 3) Crunchyroll 4) Amazon Anime 5) 9anime 6) DIRECTV 7) AnimeDao 8) Gogoanime 9) Masterani 10) Kissanime 1) Hulu Best for its premium quality anime content. Hulu offers unlimited instant streaming of current and classic TV shows and hit movies. This application allows you to watch videos on your TV, phone, laptop, tablets, etc. It offers plans combined with Disney+ and ESPN+. And it holds licenses to the great titles from some reputed animes studios in Japan. Features: You will be able to access the largest streaming library with no ads. You can download thousands of titles to watch it offline. This YouTube alternative platform offers live TV with 65+ top channels. Offers a personalized TV experience. Payment Options: PayPal, Venmo, American Express, Visa, Mastercard, and Discover. Supported Devices: Roku, Chromecast, Apple TV, Firetv, iOS, and Android, Pcs, Macs, and much more. 👍 Pros 👎 Cons Allows offline streaming. Even the subscribed plan will show ads, to remove them, you need to buy the Ads-free version only. It offers a screen recording feature. It is compatible with almost all devices. Regions Available: Worldwide Pricing: 1 month free, starting from $6.99/month. Ad Annoyance: Low 2) Contv Best for its variety of streaming contents, all for free. Contv from Cinedigm is a free channel streaming animes, TV shows, Movies, and even comedy. Contv is a platform that enables you to watch animation videos. It is one of the best sites to watch anime that provides modern and classic animation. Features: It helps you to watch original shows, genre movies, comics, and more. This application is available for web, iOS, and Android phones. You can add videos to the watch list. Your favorite anime or live TV is available for you to watch 24/7. Payment Options: Credit Card Supported Devices: Roku, iOS, Android, Smart TV, Xbox. 👍 Pros 👎 Cons Original, uncut content is uploaded The free version has limited content. It has a separate kid’s collection Regions Available: USA. Use VPN to watch in geo-restriction regions. Pricing: $6.99 a month Ad Annoyance: Low 3) Crunchyroll Best for its anime and manga store for its fans. Crunchyroll is a site for watching anime shows. You can browse the site to enjoy the drama or animation for free. This anime site is a joint venture between Japan’s Aniplex and Sony Pictures Entertainment. It also provides fans with a store that offers exciting anime merchandise. You can watch famous anime like Naruto, Yuri on Ice, etc. Features: It is one of the best anime sites which offers anime on demand. You can add reviews to the animation series you have watched. It allows you to share videos on Facebook and Twitter. Supported languages are English, Dutch, France, Italian, and more. This platform helps you to watch drama shows. Payment Options: Credit Card, PayPal, and Paymentez Supported Devices: Roku TV set-top box, Android OS 2.1+, Windows, Mac, and Linux computers with Adobe Flash 9+, iOS 3.1+, Boxee set-top box. 👍 Pros 👎 Cons Easily search animes through genres, simulcasts, alphabetical, seasons, and popular features. It is not ad-free. Offers a free standard version. It has a simple and attractive interface. Regions Available: All major regions, including the United States, Philippines, India, United Kingdom, Canada, Australia, and more. Use VPN to watch in geo-restriction regions. Pricing: Fan- $7.99/month, Mega Fan (1-month) – $9.99/month, Mega Fan (12 month) – $79.99/yearly Ad Annoyance: Low 4) Amazon Anime Best for its anime marketplace contents. Amazon Anime is a platform that enables you to buy animated movie CDs with ease. This site enables you to quickly search for needed anime. It features shows that are both dubbed and subbed as per your preferences. It offers some popular shows like Grand blue, Pokémon, and Made in Abyss are found in HD quality. Features: Allows you to buy anime with ease. Offers animation videos of varieties of actors and directors. Amazon Anime offers a wide range of subtitles. The supported animation quality is HD and 4K. Supports animation in English, German, French, Japanese, Korean, and more. Payment Options: Credit Card, Pay on delivery, Net banking, Debit card, UPI, EMI Supported Devices: Roku, Chromecast, Apple TV, Firetv, iOS, Android, smart TVs, Blu- Ray, TiVo, and Nvidia SHIELD 👍 Pros 👎 Cons It offers anime merchandise. Its streaming library is not much versatile. Provides a one-month free trial on Amazon Prime Video. Regions Available: Worldwide Pricing: $139/yearly Ad Annoyance: Low 5) 9anime Best for new and old anime streaming. 9anime is a website that allows you to watch the animation. It offers numerous categories, including action, comedy, drama, games, and more. Most of its streamed contents are in high-quality, which is 1080p. 9Anime has a sleek and catchy interface. The best thing about this website is that it allows you to watch subbed and dubbed versions of any anime without registering or paying. Features: You can search for ongoing, upcoming, and most-watched movies with ease. This site helps you to watch good movies, TV series, and OVA (Original Video Animation). It allows you to filter your videos by season, year, quality, type, and language. You can request anime you would like to watch. It offers comprehensive navigation. It displays the schedule of the upcoming anime series. Payment Options: Free website Supported Devices: PCs, Laptops, Tablets, Android and iOS mobile, smart TVs, and much more. 👍 Pros 👎 Cons No registration is required. Loading sometimes takes time. It supports HD quality Regions Available: All major regions, including the United States, Philippines, United Kingdom, Canada, Australia, Netherlands, Malaysia, Singapore, and more. Use VPN to watch in geo-restriction regions. Pricing: Free Ad Annoyance: Low 6) DIRECTV Best for its wide range of channels and on-demand titles. DIRECTV is an IPTV streaming service provider that offers Live TV and on-demand titles. It allows you to watch your favorite movies and TV shows with a compatible device, or you can also stream with the DIRECTV STREAM. It has 140+ live TV channels and 65000 on-demand titles. Features: It provides support for three simultaneous devices. Provides an option for parental control. Switch between live T.V. and apps with one mouse click. Free premium channel for three months. Payment Options: Credit Card Supported Devices: Roku, Chromecast, Apple TV, Firetv, iOS, and Android. 👍 Pros 👎 Cons Allows you to record and store anything you like to watch for up to 90 days. There are extra charges. A vast collection of channels. Compatible with almost all devices. Regions Available: Worldwide Pricing:From $74.99- $149.99/monthly Ad Annoyance: Medium 7) AnimeDao Best for its video quality, streaming speed, and content availability. AnimeDao is a site to watch popular anime movies. You can search for your favorite animation videos in English and Japanese language. It is preferred by anime lovers worldwide regarding video quality, loading speeds, and content availability. You can easily adjust the video quality from 340p to 1080p as per your connection speed. Features: You can bookmark the videos. Browse animation in alphabetical order. The platform offers dark and light themes. It provides notification of upcoming anime. A clean interface. Payment Options: Free website Supported Devices: PC and Mac. 👍 Pros 👎 Cons Offers low-bandwidth consumption. You cannot download anything. Allows you to adjust video quality as per your connection. Offers a great range of contents. Regions Available: All major regions, including the United States, Philippines, United Kingdom, Singapore, and more. Use VPN to watch in geo-restriction regions. Pricing: Free Ad Annoyance: Medium 8) Gogoanime Best for its free anime streaming service. Gogoanime is a platform that is used to watch animation movies. You can watch anime free online and browse or search for anime by day, week, or month. The catchiest thing about this anime platform is its simple interface and collection of anime titles. It is entirely free to use. They keep changing their URLs, as they are not legalized to show certain anime shows on their websites. Features: Using this free anime site, you can easily watch an ongoing series. Offers genres like action, cars, horror, drama, game, kids, and more. You can request the video you are interested in. Allows you to download your favorite episodes without any subscription. Payment Options: Free website Supported Devices: Android, iOS, Roku, Amazon FireStick TV, PC, and other devices. 👍 Pros 👎 Cons High-resolution anime content. Constantly keeps on changing URLs. Good customer support. It allows you to watch recent releases, dubs, and Chinese animation series. Daily uploads of new contents. Regions Available: All major regions, including the United States, Philippines, India, United Kingdom, Singapore, and more. Use VPN to watch in geo-restriction regions. Pricing: Free Ad Annoyance: Medium 9) Masterani Best for its anime discussion feature, used by anime lovers. Masterani is a website for enjoying animated movies and series. You can use this website to search for anime series with unlimited streaming. You can also create an account and use the anime discussion feature, where you can discuss the animes with other anime lovers. Features: Offers user-friendly UI. It is one of the fastest anime streaming sites. It can be used without any registration or additional information. You can get information about the anime based on comments and ratings. Payment Option: Free Supported Devices: PC, Mac, and mobile phones. 👍 Pros 👎 Cons The streaming is fast. SSL certificate are not identified Anime discussion platform Regions Available: Worldwide Pricing: Free Ad Annoyance: High 10) Kissanime Best for its range of anime episodes released every day. Kissanime.ru is an anime streaming site to watch anime movies. This site offers an advanced filter to search your video by name, genre, and status. Over 4000 anime episodes are daily released worldwide, in high-resolution quality like HD, 4K, AND UHD. Features: You can request your favorite animation clips. It provides categories like action, comedy, dub, adventure, and more. It provides both dubbed/subbed versions. Offers an advanced filter search. Payment Options: Free website Supported Devices: Firestick, Fire TV, Fire TV Cube, NVIDIA Shield, Windows OS computers, MAC OS computers, Android gadgets, Apple iOS gadgets, etc. 👍 Pros 👎 Cons Allows you to download and watch offline. It is not compatible with all devices. Choose your video quality. Super-fast loading speed Regions Available: All major regions, including the United States, Philippines, India, United Kingdom, Canada, Australia, and more. Pricing: Free Ad Annoyance: Low 11) Anime Planet Best for its anime list feature, which helps them know your preferences. Anime-Planet is a platform that allows you to watch anime online for free. This website offers 45,000 animation episodes. It helps you to create your anime list. It allows making friends and connecting with other anime lovers by joining the community. It provides you access to several other features like Forums, character ranking, custom lists, etc., which add to your experience. Features: It offers animation recommendations. Browse all series with ease. You can get the list of top anime. Provides a Manga library. Also displays the Meta description for the videos. Payment Options: Free website Supported Devices: Web 👍 Pros 👎 Cons Compatible with several devices. Do not categorize the contents as per genre. Low ad interruptions. Provides you with an anime lover community. Regions Available: All major regions, including the United States, Philippines, India, United Kingdom, Canada, Australia, and more. Pricing: Free Ad Annoyance: Low 12) My Anime List Best for its recommendations and review sections. My Anime List is a website for watching animation movies. It is one of the best anime sites to watch that offers reviews and recommendations of clips. You can find seasonal anime. Allows you to create an anime list that you want to watch, and they also host contests to challenge the users to complete their list before others. It has one of the largest manga and anime databases. Features: You can get notifications of the upcoming movie. It allows you to search for clips by movie characters. My Anime List helps you to watch promotional videos. Payment Options: Visa, PayPal, MasterCard, American Express Supported Devices: Desktop: Mozilla Firefox, Opera, Google Chrome, Safari, and Microsoft Edge. Mobile: Google Chrome for Android and Safari for Apple iOS 9.X+. 👍 Pros 👎 Cons Allows you to post, read reviews, and write a recommendation. To get rid of ads, you need to buy the plan. You can create clubs with similar people. Regions Available: Worldwide Pricing: $2.99/month, $29.99/yearly. Ad Annoyance: Low 13) CartoonCrazy Best for its range of content library and streaming experience. CartoonCrazy is a website for watching anime. You can also enjoy your interested animation movies on your mobile phone. The website is full of cartoons and dubbed anime streaming with high-quality resolution. Features: Offers a list of clips. You can find popular animated clips without any hassle. It enables you to watch the latest anime without any hassle. Offers categories like Anime, cartoons, movies, and more. Supported Devices: Web 👍 Pros 👎 Cons A large content library of up to 20,000+ episodes. Certain streaming servers are non-responsive. All kinds of genres are available. It delivers a less clean disturbing streaming experience. Regions Available: Worldwide Pricing: Free Ad Annoyance: Medium 14) chia-anime Best for its anime, manga, and soundtrack list. Chia-Anime is a website for enjoying high-quality anime clips. It is one of the best anime sites that offer more than 1000 anime for online streaming. It has a special feature that keeps you constantly updated with the latest anime of that time. Its interface is quite amazing and makes its navigation very easy. Features: It offers a genre list for adventure, comedy, magic, space, etc. New anime series can be watched with ease. You can enjoy the most popular and recent movies. It provides soundtracks and manga titles with visual content. Payment Options: Free website. Supported Devices: Mac, Windows PC, iOS, Android, Amazon Fire TVs, and Smart TVs. 👍 Pros 👎 Cons Easy navigation through anime. Interruptions due to Ads. Fast video loading. Free dubbed versions are available Regions Available: Worldwide Pricing: Free Ad Annoyance: High 15) tubi.tv Best for streaming anime, TV shows, and movies for free. Tubi. tv is a Japanese movie collection. It is an Ad-supported platform with 35000+ movies and TV shows. You can search for animated movies, from classic blockbusters to new shows. It has over 95+ local channels with 250+ entertainment partners. Features: You can find shows and movies with ease. Its library contains all from the latest to the oldest series. Supports Android and iPhone devices. You easily view the most popular and recently added clips. Allows you to sync your device so that you can resume from where you dropped. Payment Options: Free website Supported Devices: Android, iOS, Roku, Apple TV, Amazon Fire TV, Xfinity X1, Xbox, Samsung Smart TVs, Sony Smart TVs, PlayStation, and the web. 👍 Pros 👎 Cons Allows you to Bookmark the series and movies you want to watch later. It is an Ad-supported platform, due to which, it shows up Ads every 10-15 minutes. Compatible with almost all devices. No subscription is needed. Regions Available: United States, Philippines, India, Mexico, Canada, and Australia. Use VPN to watch in geo-restriction regions. Pricing: Free Ad Annoyance: High 16) Soul Anime Best for free anime streaming with a great number of contents. Soul Anime is a website that can be used to watch animations for free. It is one of the best anime websites to watch popular movies like dragon ball heroes, new fairy tale series, black clover, and more. Based on genre or alphabet, you can easily filter out your choice of anime. It has over 4000+ anime series and 60000+ episodes. Features: Offers a list of animes. Search your interesting movie with ease. Provides daily updates of episodes. Genre and alphabetically based organization. Payment Options: Free website. Supported Devices: Web 👍 Pros 👎 Cons Unlimited free streaming. It Shows Ads, creating a disturbance. Provides Dubbed and Subbed versions. Allows you to download the anime. Regions Available: Worldwide Pricing: Free Ad Annoyance: High 17) Funimation Best for its premium anime and top-notch streaming content. Funimation, owned by Sony, is a collection of popular, subbed, and dubbed anime. It is one of the best anime streaming services that allow you to view recently added movies. It comes with English subtitles, as well as English audio. This site streams the latest shows after a few hours of broadcast. Before it became a streaming platform, it published some of the best anime like Beyblade, Pokémon, and Dragon Ball Z in West. Features: It is one of the best places to watch anime that provides action, adventure, horror, idol, drama, etc. Offers Manga store and Anime. This anime website to watch offers thousands of episodes. You can enjoy recently added, subbed shows, dubbed, and popular shows. Payment Options: Credit card, PayPal, Visa, MasterCard, Discover Supported Devices: Android, iOS, Amazon Kindle, Amazon Fire TV, Android TV, Apple TV, Chromecast, Roku, Samsung smart TV, LG smart TV, PS3, PS4, PS Vita, Xbox 360, and Xbox One. 👍 Pros 👎 Cons Provides anime with Subbed and dubbed versions. To watch the Dubbed versions, you need to buy a subscription. Top-notch resolution content. With the premium version, two screens are available. Regions Available: New Zealand and Australia. Use VPN to watch in geo-restriction regions. Pricing: $5.99/month, $7.99/month, $99.99/yearly Ad Annoyance: Low 18) Anime heaven Best for its online collection of contents. Anime heaven is an online collection of cartoons and animations in high-resolution format. It is one of the best anime streaming sites that helps you to watch clips without any downloads or surveys. Watch shows like Boruto, Black Clover, One Piece, Hero Academia, and much more for free without creating an account. It has 10,000+ movies and TV shows. Features: It offers a mobile-friendly interface to watch anime movies. You can browse and enjoy a series of anime with an SSL certificate. This website does not pop any ads while playing any video. You can download anime from google drive to your local files. Payment Options: Free website Supported Devices: Firestick, Windows, iOS, Android, etc. 👍 Pros 👎 Cons Even being free, it is Ads less. Delayed uploading of anime content. Allows you to select video quality for playback automatically. Allows you to download it and watch it offline. Regions Available: Worldwide Pricing: Free Ad Annoyance: Low 19) SideReel Best for its features like review, track, watch and rate. SideReel is a website for watching TV shows. It was founded in 2007. Its catalog includes over 22,000 shows in it. You can use it to access links to episodes, reviews, ratings, and show schedules. It allows you to track, review, rate, and watch shows online. Features: It is one of the best websites to watch anime which offers free anime shows. You can find showtimes, airdates, and more with ease. Search comedy, action, fantasy, and more. You can receive episode alerts. Payment Options: Stripe and PayPal Supported Devices: Web 👍 Pros 👎 Cons Features like side reel tracker. To get rid of Ads, you need to buy a subscription. Allows you to review, rate, or track shows. Good range of contents. Regions Available: Worldwide Pricing: $12 USD/per year Ad Annoyance: High 20) Animefreak Best for free anime streaming. Animefreak is a site that helps you to watch the latest anime episodes. It allows you to browse animation series by genre. Watch and download dubbed or subbed anime in high-quality results without any registration. It provides 24/7 support and is regularly updated with the latest series and movies. Features: Supported browsers are Firefox and Internet Explorer. Option for creating your favorites animation list. Enjoy clips without buffering. The latest and popular anime can be searched with ease. There is also an anime community. The Manga series is also available. Payment Options: Free website Supported Devices: Android, Windows, Firestick, and iOS 👍 Pros 👎 Cons It is completely free. Showcases lots of Ads. No registration is required to view or download the contents. User-friendly interface. Regions Available: Worldwide Pricing: Free Ad Annoyance: High 21) Netflix Best for its excellent video streaming quality, choice of contents, and exclusive anime titles. Netflix is an online streaming website that brings high-quality series and movies into your drawing or leaving the room. It is one of the best anime websites that contains animation movies, cartoons, and TV shows for kids. It has become one of the most popular online streaming platforms. Easy to use, watch, allows you to make a list of your preferred contents, and has high-quality streaming. Features: It has high-quality original content and also offers kids’ programs in various languages. Provide ad-free streaming. You can enjoy action movies, kids’ TV Thrilling videos, and more. Allows you to download your favorite anime on mobile. There is a vast collection of movies, shows, animes, series, and KDrama. Payment Options: MasterCard, Visa, HDFC credit card, Amazon pay, BHIM, PhonePE, Paytm, and Google Pay. Supported Devices: Android, Smart TVs, Windows, Laptop, PC, Mac, iOS 👍 Pros 👎 Cons Its collection of online streaming content. For Ads-free watching, you need to buy the plan. Allows you to download. Supports a wide range of devices. Regions Available: Worldwide Pricing: From $9.99-$19.99/monthly Ad Annoyance: Low FAQs: ⚡ Where to watch anime legally? You can watch Anime legally on the following sites: Hulu CONtv Crunchyroll Amazon Anime 9anime Directv Netflix Anime Planet Tubi TV Also, check: Best IPTV to watch Anime legally 🏅 Where can you watch anime for free? You can watch Anime for free on the following sites: Crunchyroll 9anime AnimeDao Gogoanime Anime Planet Soul Anime Side Reel Anime Take 👉 What is an anime website? Anime websites are online collections of animated movies, cartoons, and TV shows. You can browse these websites to find anime like action, drama, horror, kids, and more. Many such sites enable you to filter anime by season, year, quality, and language. ⭐ What are the standard features of good anime websites? Here are some common features of good anime websites: It offers numerous categories, including action, comedy, drama, games, and more. You can request the video you are interested in. New anime series can be watched with ease. You can browse and enjoy a series of anime with an SSL certificate. 💻 What are common devices used for watching anime? To watch an anime website, you can use iPhone, tablet, laptop, computer, and many other devices for watching movies. 🌟 Why is Anime so Popular? Here are some prominent reasons behind the popularity of Anime: Anime is popular for its relatable and well-written stories. It appeals to people because it is an escape from reality. Its artistry is something that you cannot be ignored. It has a global following, and people of all ages love it. 💥 Is Anime Illegal? No, Anime is not illegal to watch if you watch it from an official site or a legit source where it is uploaded with the consent of the creator. You can also watch Anime legally from online channels of distribution and production companies. Watching Anime is illegal only if you watch from a source that has no copyright of it. You Might Like: How to Download YouTube Videos on PC | Laptop | Mobile Best KeepVid Alternatives to Download Online Videos in 2022 Area 51 IPTV: What is? Best Alternatives 10 BEST Instagram Reels Downloader [Jul 2022] How to Open .DAT File in Windows, Mac, Android, iPhone Post navigation Report a Bug Previous Prev Next Continue Top Tutorials About About Us Advertise with Us Write For Us Contact Us Python Testing Hacking Career Suggestion SAP Career Suggestion Tool Software Testing as a Career Interesting eBook Blog Quiz SAP eBook SAP Java SQL Execute online Execute Java Online Execute Javascript Execute HTML Execute Python Selenium Cryptocurrency VPNs © Copyright - Guru99 2022 Privacy Policy | Affiliate Disclaimer | ToS Scroll to top Home TestingExpand child menu Expand Agile Testing JUnit Quality Center(ALM) Bugzilla HP Loadrunner RPA Cucumber Software Testing SAP Testing Database Testing Mobile Testing Selenium ETL Testing Mantis SoapUI JMeter Postman TEST Management JIRA QTP TestLink SAPExpand child menu Expand ABAP CRM PI/PO APO Crystal Reports PP Beginners FICO SD Basis HANA SAPUI5 BODS HR Security Tutorial BI/BW MM Solution Manager BPC QM Successfactors CO Payroll SAP Tutorial WebExpand child menu Expand Apache Java PHP SQL Server AngularJS JSP PL/SQL UML ASP.NET Kotlin PostgreSQL VB.NET C Linux Python VBScript C# MariaDB ReactJS Web Services C++ MS Access Ruby & Rails WPF CodeIgniter MySQL Scala SQLite DBMS Node.js SQL Perl JavaScript Must LearnExpand child menu Expand Accounting Embedded Systems Operating System Algorithms Ethical Hacking PMP Android Excel Tutorial Photoshop Blockchain Go Programming Project Management Business Analyst IoT Reviews Build Website ITIL Salesforce Cloud Computing Jenkins SEO COBOL MIS Software Engineering Compiler Design Movie VBA Courses Networking VPN Big DataExpand child menu Expand AWS Hive Power BI Big Data Informatica Qlikview Cassandra MicroStrategy Tableau Cognos MongoDB Talend Data Warehousing NiFi ZooKeeper DevOps OBIEE Pentaho HBase Live ProjectExpand child menu Expand Live Agile Testing Live Selenium Project Live HP ALM Live Selenium 2 Live Java Project Live Security Testing Live Mobile Testing Live Testing Project Live Payment Gateway Live Testing 2 Live PHP Project Live Telecom Live Projects Hub Live UFT/QTP Testing Live Python Project Live SEO Project AIExpand child menu Expand Artificial Intelligence PyTorch Data Science R Programming Keras TensorFlow NLTK Blog Toggle Menu Close Search for: Searchhttps://www.guru99.com/anime-websites-watch-online-free.html 20 FREE Anime Websites to Watch the Best Anime Online Skip to content Home Testing Expand Agile Testing JUnit Quality Center(ALM) Bugzilla HP Loadrunner RPA Cucumber Software Testing SAP Testing Database Testing Mobile Testing Selenium ETL Testing Mantis SoapUI JMeter Postman TEST Management JIRA QTP TestLink SAP Expand ABAP CRM PI/PO APO Crystal Reports PP Beginners FICO SD Basis HANA SAPUI5 BODS HR Security Tutorial BI/BW MM Solution Manager BPC QM Successfactors CO Payroll SAP Tutorial Web Expand Apache Java PHP SQL Server AngularJS JSP PL/SQL UML ASP.NET Kotlin PostgreSQL VB.NET C Linux Python VBScript C# MariaDB ReactJS Web Services C++ MS Access Ruby & Rails WPF CodeIgniter MySQL Scala SQLite DBMS Node.js SQL Perl JavaScript Must Learn Expand Accounting Embedded Systems Operating System Algorithms Ethical Hacking PMP Android Excel Tutorial Photoshop Blockchain Go Programming Project Management Business Analyst IoT Reviews Build Website ITIL Salesforce Cloud Computing Jenkins SEO COBOL MIS Software Engineering Compiler Design Movie VBA Courses Networking VPN Big Data Expand AWS Hive Power BI Big Data Informatica Qlikview Cassandra MicroStrategy Tableau Cognos MongoDB Talend Data Warehousing NiFi ZooKeeper DevOps OBIEE Pentaho HBase Live Project Expand Live Agile Testing Live Selenium Project Live HP ALM Live Selenium 2 Live Java Project Live Security Testing Live Mobile Testing Live Testing Project Live Payment Gateway Live Testing 2 Live PHP Project Live Telecom Live Projects Hub Live UFT/QTP Testing Live Python Project Live SEO Project AI Expand Artificial Intelligence PyTorch Data Science R Programming Keras TensorFlow NLTK Blog Search Toggle Menu 20 FREE Anime Websites to Watch the Best Anime Online ByAmanda Henderson Hours UpdatedJuly 15, 2022 Anime is one of the most popular genres of entertainment today, and for a good reason. It’s full of action, adventure, and suspense and always entertaining. Many such sites enable you to filter anime by season, year, quality, and language. Following is a handpicked list of the Safest websites to watch or download your favorite anime movies, cartoons, and TV shows online for free in ultra-HD quality. Top Anime Streaming Sites to Watch Anime Online Anime Site Regions VPN friendly Link Hulu Worldwide Yes Watch Now Contv USA Yes Watch Now Crunchyroll USA, Philippines, India, UK, Canada, Australia, etc. Yes Watch Now Amazon Anime Worldwide Yes Watch Now 9anime USA, Philippines, India, UK, Canada, Australia, and more. Yes Watch Now DIRECTV Worldwide Yes Watch Now Animedao USA, Philippines, India, UK, Canada, Singapore, and more. Yes Watch Now Gogoanime USA, Philippines, India, UK, Canada, Singapore, etc. Yes Watch Now Masterani Worldwide Yes Watch Now Kissanime USA, Philippines, India, UK, Canada, Australia, and more. Yes Watch Now Attention Anime Users: Read before you continue Anime is fun to watch but could also get you into legal trouble if caught streaming free Cartoons. Anime users are strongly advised to always connect a VPN while streaming online. A good Anime VPN hides your identity, bypasses government surveillance, geo-blocked content, and ISP throttling (which also helps in buffer-free streaming). We use NordVPN, which is the fastest and most secure VPN. It is very easy to install on any device, including Android, iPhone, or Smart TV. You grab a 2-Year Deal and save 65% on its annual plans. Also, it comes with a 30-day money-back guarantee. If you are not satisfied, you can always ask for a refund. Click HERE to Grab a 2-Year Deal and save 65% on NordVPN. Legal Disclaimer: This article is purely educational. Guru99 doesn’t own, host, operate, resell, or distribute any of these sites/apps, tools, or services. The page contains some unverified listings, and we are not certain whether they hold legal licenses to distribute the content. Guru99 does not verify the legality of each app/service in all regions. Do your due diligence if you use any unverified sites, apps, or services; only content is available in the public domain. The end-user shall be solely responsible for the media access. We do not encourage illegal downloads of any copyrighted content. Use only legal methods. List of the Best Anime Websites to Watch: Top Anime Streaming Sites to Watch Anime Online 1) Hulu 2) Contv 3) Crunchyroll 4) Amazon Anime 5) 9anime 6) DIRECTV 7) AnimeDao 8) Gogoanime 9) Masterani 10) Kissanime 1) Hulu Best for its premium quality anime content. Hulu offers unlimited instant streaming of current and classic TV shows and hit movies. This application allows you to watch videos on your TV, phone, laptop, tablets, etc. It offers plans combined with Disney+ and ESPN+. And it holds licenses to the great titles from some reputed animes studios in Japan. Features: You will be able to access the largest streaming library with no ads. You can download thousands of titles to watch it offline. This YouTube alternative platform offers live TV with 65+ top channels. Offers a personalized TV experience. Payment Options: PayPal, Venmo, American Express, Visa, Mastercard, and Discover. Supported Devices: Roku, Chromecast, Apple TV, Firetv, iOS, and Android, Pcs, Macs, and much more. 👍 Pros 👎 Cons Allows offline streaming. Even the subscribed plan will show ads, to remove them, you need to buy the Ads-free version only. It offers a screen recording feature. It is compatible with almost all devices. Regions Available: Worldwide Pricing: 1 month free, starting from $6.99/month. Ad Annoyance: Low 2) Contv Best for its variety of streaming contents, all for free. Contv from Cinedigm is a free channel streaming animes, TV shows, Movies, and even comedy. Contv is a platform that enables you to watch animation videos. It is one of the best sites to watch anime that provides modern and classic animation. Features: It helps you to watch original shows, genre movies, comics, and more. This application is available for web, iOS, and Android phones. You can add videos to the watch list. Your favorite anime or live TV is available for you to watch 24/7. Payment Options: Credit Card Supported Devices: Roku, iOS, Android, Smart TV, Xbox. 👍 Pros 👎 Cons Original, uncut content is uploaded The free version has limited content. It has a separate kid’s collection Regions Available: USA. Use VPN to watch in geo-restriction regions. Pricing: $6.99 a month Ad Annoyance: Low 3) Crunchyroll Best for its anime and manga store for its fans. Crunchyroll is a site for watching anime shows. You can browse the site to enjoy the drama or animation for free. This anime site is a joint venture between Japan’s Aniplex and Sony Pictures Entertainment. It also provides fans with a store that offers exciting anime merchandise. You can watch famous anime like Naruto, Yuri on Ice, etc. Features: It is one of the best anime sites which offers anime on demand. You can add reviews to the animation series you have watched. It allows you to share videos on Facebook and Twitter. Supported languages are English, Dutch, France, Italian, and more. This platform helps you to watch drama shows. Payment Options: Credit Card, PayPal, and Paymentez Supported Devices: Roku TV set-top box, Android OS 2.1+, Windows, Mac, and Linux computers with Adobe Flash 9+, iOS 3.1+, Boxee set-top box. 👍 Pros 👎 Cons Easily search animes through genres, simulcasts, alphabetical, seasons, and popular features. It is not ad-free. Offers a free standard version. It has a simple and attractive interface. Regions Available: All major regions, including the United States, Philippines, India, United Kingdom, Canada, Australia, and more. Use VPN to watch in geo-restriction regions. Pricing: Fan- $7.99/month, Mega Fan (1-month) – $9.99/month, Mega Fan (12 month) – $79.99/yearly Ad Annoyance: Low 4) Amazon Anime Best for its anime marketplace contents. Amazon Anime is a platform that enables you to buy animated movie CDs with ease. This site enables you to quickly search for needed anime. It features shows that are both dubbed and subbed as per your preferences. It offers some popular shows like Grand blue, Pokémon, and Made in Abyss are found in HD quality. Features: Allows you to buy anime with ease. Offers animation videos of varieties of actors and directors. Amazon Anime offers a wide range of subtitles. The supported animation quality is HD and 4K. Supports animation in English, German, French, Japanese, Korean, and more. Payment Options: Credit Card, Pay on delivery, Net banking, Debit card, UPI, EMI Supported Devices: Roku, Chromecast, Apple TV, Firetv, iOS, Android, smart TVs, Blu- Ray, TiVo, and Nvidia SHIELD 👍 Pros 👎 Cons It offers anime merchandise. Its streaming library is not much versatile. Provides a one-month free trial on Amazon Prime Video. Regions Available: Worldwide Pricing: $139/yearly Ad Annoyance: Low 5) 9anime Best for new and old anime streaming. 9anime is a website that allows you to watch the animation. It offers numerous categories, including action, comedy, drama, games, and more. Most of its streamed contents are in high-quality, which is 1080p. 9Anime has a sleek and catchy interface. The best thing about this website is that it allows you to watch subbed and dubbed versions of any anime without registering or paying. Features: You can search for ongoing, upcoming, and most-watched movies with ease. This site helps you to watch good movies, TV series, and OVA (Original Video Animation). It allows you to filter your videos by season, year, quality, type, and language. You can request anime you would like to watch. It offers comprehensive navigation. It displays the schedule of the upcoming anime series. Payment Options: Free website Supported Devices: PCs, Laptops, Tablets, Android and iOS mobile, smart TVs, and much more. 👍 Pros 👎 Cons No registration is required. Loading sometimes takes time. It supports HD quality Regions Available: All major regions, including the United States, Philippines, United Kingdom, Canada, Australia, Netherlands, Malaysia, Singapore, and more. Use VPN to watch in geo-restriction regions. Pricing: Free Ad Annoyance: Low 6) DIRECTV Best for its wide range of channels and on-demand titles. DIRECTV is an IPTV streaming service provider that offers Live TV and on-demand titles. It allows you to watch your favorite movies and TV shows with a compatible device, or you can also stream with the DIRECTV STREAM. It has 140+ live TV channels and 65000 on-demand titles. Features: It provides support for three simultaneous devices. Provides an option for parental control. Switch between live T.V. and apps with one mouse click. Free premium channel for three months. Payment Options: Credit Card Supported Devices: Roku, Chromecast, Apple TV, Firetv, iOS, and Android. 👍 Pros 👎 Cons Allows you to record and store anything you like to watch for up to 90 days. There are extra charges. A vast collection of channels. Compatible with almost all devices. Regions Available: Worldwide Pricing:From $74.99- $149.99/monthly Ad Annoyance: Medium 7) AnimeDao Best for its video quality, streaming speed, and content availability. AnimeDao is a site to watch popular anime movies. You can search for your favorite animation videos in English and Japanese language. It is preferred by anime lovers worldwide regarding video quality, loading speeds, and content availability. You can easily adjust the video quality from 340p to 1080p as per your connection speed. Features: You can bookmark the videos. Browse animation in alphabetical order. The platform offers dark and light themes. It provides notification of upcoming anime. A clean interface. Payment Options: Free website Supported Devices: PC and Mac. 👍 Pros 👎 Cons Offers low-bandwidth consumption. You cannot download anything. Allows you to adjust video quality as per your connection. Offers a great range of contents. Regions Available: All major regions, including the United States, Philippines, United Kingdom, Singapore, and more. Use VPN to watch in geo-restriction regions. Pricing: Free Ad Annoyance: Medium 8) Gogoanime Best for its free anime streaming service. Gogoanime is a platform that is used to watch animation movies. You can watch anime free online and browse or search for anime by day, week, or month. The catchiest thing about this anime platform is its simple interface and collection of anime titles. It is entirely free to use. They keep changing their URLs, as they are not legalized to show certain anime shows on their websites. Features: Using this free anime site, you can easily watch an ongoing series. Offers genres like action, cars, horror, drama, game, kids, and more. You can request the video you are interested in. Allows you to download your favorite episodes without any subscription. Payment Options: Free website Supported Devices: Android, iOS, Roku, Amazon FireStick TV, PC, and other devices. 👍 Pros 👎 Cons High-resolution anime content. Constantly keeps on changing URLs. Good customer support. It allows you to watch recent releases, dubs, and Chinese animation series. Daily uploads of new contents. Regions Available: All major regions, including the United States, Philippines, India, United Kingdom, Singapore, and more. Use VPN to watch in geo-restriction regions. Pricing: Free Ad Annoyance: Medium 9) Masterani Best for its anime discussion feature, used by anime lovers. Masterani is a website for enjoying animated movies and series. You can use this website to search for anime series with unlimited streaming. You can also create an account and use the anime discussion feature, where you can discuss the animes with other anime lovers. Features: Offers user-friendly UI. It is one of the fastest anime streaming sites. It can be used without any registration or additional information. You can get information about the anime based on comments and ratings. Payment Option: Free Supported Devices: PC, Mac, and mobile phones. 👍 Pros 👎 Cons The streaming is fast. SSL certificate are not identified Anime discussion platform Regions Available: Worldwide Pricing: Free Ad Annoyance: High 10) Kissanime Best for its range of anime episodes released every day. Kissanime.ru is an anime streaming site to watch anime movies. This site offers an advanced filter to search your video by name, genre, and status. Over 4000 anime episodes are daily released worldwide, in high-resolution quality like HD, 4K, AND UHD. Features: You can request your favorite animation clips. It provides categories like action, comedy, dub, adventure, and more. It provides both dubbed/subbed versions. Offers an advanced filter search. Payment Options: Free website Supported Devices: Firestick, Fire TV, Fire TV Cube, NVIDIA Shield, Windows OS computers, MAC OS computers, Android gadgets, Apple iOS gadgets, etc. 👍 Pros 👎 Cons Allows you to download and watch offline. It is not compatible with all devices. Choose your video quality. Super-fast loading speed Regions Available: All major regions, including the United States, Philippines, India, United Kingdom, Canada, Australia, and more. Pricing: Free Ad Annoyance: Low 11) Anime Planet Best for its anime list feature, which helps them know your preferences. Anime-Planet is a platform that allows you to watch anime online for free. This website offers 45,000 animation episodes. It helps you to create your anime list. It allows making friends and connecting with other anime lovers by joining the community. It provides you access to several other features like Forums, character ranking, custom lists, etc., which add to your experience. Features: It offers animation recommendations. Browse all series with ease. You can get the list of top anime. Provides a Manga library. Also displays the Meta description for the videos. Payment Options: Free website Supported Devices: Web 👍 Pros 👎 Cons Compatible with several devices. Do not categorize the contents as per genre. Low ad interruptions. Provides you with an anime lover community. Regions Available: All major regions, including the United States, Philippines, India, United Kingdom, Canada, Australia, and more. Pricing: Free Ad Annoyance: Low 12) My Anime List Best for its recommendations and review sections. My Anime List is a website for watching animation movies. It is one of the best anime sites to watch that offers reviews and recommendations of clips. You can find seasonal anime. Allows you to create an anime list that you want to watch, and they also host contests to challenge the users to complete their list before others. It has one of the largest manga and anime databases. Features: You can get notifications of the upcoming movie. It allows you to search for clips by movie characters. My Anime List helps you to watch promotional videos. Payment Options: Visa, PayPal, MasterCard, American Express Supported Devices: Desktop: Mozilla Firefox, Opera, Google Chrome, Safari, and Microsoft Edge. Mobile: Google Chrome for Android and Safari for Apple iOS 9.X+. 👍 Pros 👎 Cons Allows you to post, read reviews, and write a recommendation. To get rid of ads, you need to buy the plan. You can create clubs with similar people. Regions Available: Worldwide Pricing: $2.99/month, $29.99/yearly. Ad Annoyance: Low 13) CartoonCrazy Best for its range of content library and streaming experience. CartoonCrazy is a website for watching anime. You can also enjoy your interested animation movies on your mobile phone. The website is full of cartoons and dubbed anime streaming with high-quality resolution. Features: Offers a list of clips. You can find popular animated clips without any hassle. It enables you to watch the latest anime without any hassle. Offers categories like Anime, cartoons, movies, and more. Supported Devices: Web 👍 Pros 👎 Cons A large content library of up to 20,000+ episodes. Certain streaming servers are non-responsive. All kinds of genres are available. It delivers a less clean disturbing streaming experience. Regions Available: Worldwide Pricing: Free Ad Annoyance: Medium 14) chia-anime Best for its anime, manga, and soundtrack list. Chia-Anime is a website for enjoying high-quality anime clips. It is one of the best anime sites that offer more than 1000 anime for online streaming. It has a special feature that keeps you constantly updated with the latest anime of that time. Its interface is quite amazing and makes its navigation very easy. Features: It offers a genre list for adventure, comedy, magic, space, etc. New anime series can be watched with ease. You can enjoy the most popular and recent movies. It provides soundtracks and manga titles with visual content. Payment Options: Free website. Supported Devices: Mac, Windows PC, iOS, Android, Amazon Fire TVs, and Smart TVs. 👍 Pros 👎 Cons Easy navigation through anime. Interruptions due to Ads. Fast video loading. Free dubbed versions are available Regions Available: Worldwide Pricing: Free Ad Annoyance: High 15) tubi.tv Best for streaming anime, TV shows, and movies for free. Tubi. tv is a Japanese movie collection. It is an Ad-supported platform with 35000+ movies and TV shows. You can search for animated movies, from classic blockbusters to new shows. It has over 95+ local channels with 250+ entertainment partners. Features: You can find shows and movies with ease. Its library contains all from the latest to the oldest series. Supports Android and iPhone devices. You easily view the most popular and recently added clips. Allows you to sync your device so that you can resume from where you dropped. Payment Options: Free website Supported Devices: Android, iOS, Roku, Apple TV, Amazon Fire TV, Xfinity X1, Xbox, Samsung Smart TVs, Sony Smart TVs, PlayStation, and the web. 👍 Pros 👎 Cons Allows you to Bookmark the series and movies you want to watch later. It is an Ad-supported platform, due to which, it shows up Ads every 10-15 minutes. Compatible with almost all devices. No subscription is needed. Regions Available: United States, Philippines, India, Mexico, Canada, and Australia. Use VPN to watch in geo-restriction regions. Pricing: Free Ad Annoyance: High 16) Soul Anime Best for free anime streaming with a great number of contents. Soul Anime is a website that can be used to watch animations for free. It is one of the best anime websites to watch popular movies like dragon ball heroes, new fairy tale series, black clover, and more. Based on genre or alphabet, you can easily filter out your choice of anime. It has over 4000+ anime series and 60000+ episodes. Features: Offers a list of animes. Search your interesting movie with ease. Provides daily updates of episodes. Genre and alphabetically based organization. Payment Options: Free website. Supported Devices: Web 👍 Pros 👎 Cons Unlimited free streaming. It Shows Ads, creating a disturbance. Provides Dubbed and Subbed versions. Allows you to download the anime. Regions Available: Worldwide Pricing: Free Ad Annoyance: High 17) Funimation Best for its premium anime and top-notch streaming content. Funimation, owned by Sony, is a collection of popular, subbed, and dubbed anime. It is one of the best anime streaming services that allow you to view recently added movies. It comes with English subtitles, as well as English audio. This site streams the latest shows after a few hours of broadcast. Before it became a streaming platform, it published some of the best anime like Beyblade, Pokémon, and Dragon Ball Z in West. Features: It is one of the best places to watch anime that provides action, adventure, horror, idol, drama, etc. Offers Manga store and Anime. This anime website to watch offers thousands of episodes. You can enjoy recently added, subbed shows, dubbed, and popular shows. Payment Options: Credit card, PayPal, Visa, MasterCard, Discover Supported Devices: Android, iOS, Amazon Kindle, Amazon Fire TV, Android TV, Apple TV, Chromecast, Roku, Samsung smart TV, LG smart TV, PS3, PS4, PS Vita, Xbox 360, and Xbox One. 👍 Pros 👎 Cons Provides anime with Subbed and dubbed versions. To watch the Dubbed versions, you need to buy a subscription. Top-notch resolution content. With the premium version, two screens are available. Regions Available: New Zealand and Australia. Use VPN to watch in geo-restriction regions. Pricing: $5.99/month, $7.99/month, $99.99/yearly Ad Annoyance: Low 18) Anime heaven Best for its online collection of contents. Anime heaven is an online collection of cartoons and animations in high-resolution format. It is one of the best anime streaming sites that helps you to watch clips without any downloads or surveys. Watch shows like Boruto, Black Clover, One Piece, Hero Academia, and much more for free without creating an account. It has 10,000+ movies and TV shows. Features: It offers a mobile-friendly interface to watch anime movies. You can browse and enjoy a series of anime with an SSL certificate. This website does not pop any ads while playing any video. You can download anime from google drive to your local files. Payment Options: Free website Supported Devices: Firestick, Windows, iOS, Android, etc. 👍 Pros 👎 Cons Even being free, it is Ads less. Delayed uploading of anime content. Allows you to select video quality for playback automatically. Allows you to download it and watch it offline. Regions Available: Worldwide Pricing: Free Ad Annoyance: Low 19) SideReel Best for its features like review, track, watch and rate. SideReel is a website for watching TV shows. It was founded in 2007. Its catalog includes over 22,000 shows in it. You can use it to access links to episodes, reviews, ratings, and show schedules. It allows you to track, review, rate, and watch shows online. Features: It is one of the best websites to watch anime which offers free anime shows. You can find showtimes, airdates, and more with ease. Search comedy, action, fantasy, and more. You can receive episode alerts. Payment Options: Stripe and PayPal Supported Devices: Web 👍 Pros 👎 Cons Features like side reel tracker. To get rid of Ads, you need to buy a subscription. Allows you to review, rate, or track shows. Good range of contents. Regions Available: Worldwide Pricing: $12 USD/per year Ad Annoyance: High 20) Animefreak Best for free anime streaming. Animefreak is a site that helps you to watch the latest anime episodes. It allows you to browse animation series by genre. Watch and download dubbed or subbed anime in high-quality results without any registration. It provides 24/7 support and is regularly updated with the latest series and movies. Features: Supported browsers are Firefox and Internet Explorer. Option for creating your favorites animation list. Enjoy clips without buffering. The latest and popular anime can be searched with ease. There is also an anime community. The Manga series is also available. Payment Options: Free website Supported Devices: Android, Windows, Firestick, and iOS 👍 Pros 👎 Cons It is completely free. Showcases lots of Ads. No registration is required to view or download the contents. User-friendly interface. Regions Available: Worldwide Pricing: Free Ad Annoyance: High 21) Netflix Best for its excellent video streaming quality, choice of contents, and exclusive anime titles. Netflix is an online streaming website that brings high-quality series and movies into your drawing or leaving the room. It is one of the best anime websites that contains animation movies, cartoons, and TV shows for kids. It has become one of the most popular online streaming platforms. Easy to use, watch, allows you to make a list of your preferred contents, and has high-quality streaming. Features: It has high-quality original content and also offers kids’ programs in various languages. Provide ad-free streaming. You can enjoy action movies, kids’ TV Thrilling videos, and more. Allows you to download your favorite anime on mobile. There is a vast collection of movies, shows, animes, series, and KDrama. Payment Options: MasterCard, Visa, HDFC credit card, Amazon pay, BHIM, PhonePE, Paytm, and Google Pay. Supported Devices: Android, Smart TVs, Windows, Laptop, PC, Mac, iOS 👍 Pros 👎 Cons Its collection of online streaming content. For Ads-free watching, you need to buy the plan. Allows you to download. Supports a wide range of devices. Regions Available: Worldwide Pricing: From $9.99-$19.99/monthly Ad Annoyance: Low FAQs: ⚡ Where to watch anime legally? You can watch Anime legally on the following sites: Hulu CONtv Crunchyroll Amazon Anime 9anime Directv Netflix Anime Planet Tubi TV Also, check: Best IPTV to watch Anime legally 🏅 Where can you watch anime for free? You can watch Anime for free on the following sites: Crunchyroll 9anime AnimeDao Gogoanime Anime Planet Soul Anime Side Reel Anime Take 👉 What is an anime website? Anime websites are online collections of animated movies, cartoons, and TV shows. You can browse these websites to find anime like action, drama, horror, kids, and more. Many such sites enable you to filter anime by season, year, quality, and language. ⭐ What are the standard features of good anime websites? Here are some common features of good anime websites: It offers numerous categories, including action, comedy, drama, games, and more. You can request the video you are interested in. New anime series can be watched with ease. You can browse and enjoy a series of anime with an SSL certificate. 💻 What are common devices used for watching anime? To watch an anime website, you can use iPhone, tablet, laptop, computer, and many other devices for watching movies. 🌟 Why is Anime so Popular? Here are some prominent reasons behind the popularity of Anime: Anime is popular for its relatable and well-written stories. It appeals to people because it is an escape from reality. Its artistry is something that you cannot be ignored. It has a global following, and people of all ages love it. 💥 Is Anime Illegal? No, Anime is not illegal to watch if you watch it from an official site or a legit source where it is uploaded with the consent of the creator. You can also watch Anime legally from online channels of distribution and production companies. Watching Anime is illegal only if you watch from a source that has no copyright of it. You Might Like: How to Download YouTube Videos on PC | Laptop | Mobile Best KeepVid Alternatives to Download Online Videos in 2022 Area 51 IPTV: What is? Best Alternatives 10 BEST Instagram Reels Downloader [Jul 2022] How to Open .DAT File in Windows, Mac, Android, iPhone Post navigation Report a Bug Previous Prev Next Continue Top Tutorials About About Us Advertise with Us Write For Us Contact Us Python Testing Hacking Career Suggestion SAP Career Suggestion Tool Software Testing as a Career Interesting eBook Blog Quiz SAP eBook SAP Java SQL Execute online Execute Java Online Execute Javascript Execute HTML Execute Python Selenium Cryptocurrency VPNs © Copyright - Guru99 2022 Privacy Policy | Affiliate Disclaimer | ToS Scroll to top Home TestingExpand child menu Expand Agile Testing JUnit Quality Center(ALM) Bugzilla HP Loadrunner RPA Cucumber Software Testing SAP Testing Database Testing Mobile Testing Selenium ETL Testing Mantis SoapUI JMeter Postman TEST Management JIRA QTP TestLink SAPExpand child menu Expand ABAP CRM PI/PO APO Crystal Reports PP Beginners FICO SD Basis HANA SAPUI5 BODS HR Security Tutorial BI/BW MM Solution Manager BPC QM Successfactors CO Payroll SAP Tutorial WebExpand child menu Expand Apache Java PHP SQL Server AngularJS JSP PL/SQL UML ASP.NET Kotlin PostgreSQL VB.NET C Linux Python VBScript C# MariaDB ReactJS Web Services C++ MS Access Ruby & Rails WPF CodeIgniter MySQL Scala SQLite DBMS Node.js SQL Perl JavaScript Must LearnExpand child menu Expand Accounting Embedded Systems Operating System Algorithms Ethical Hacking PMP Android Excel Tutorial Photoshop Blockchain Go Programming Project Management Business Analyst IoT Reviews Build Website ITIL Salesforce Cloud Computing Jenkins SEO COBOL MIS Software Engineering Compiler Design Movie VBA Courses Networking VPN Big DataExpand child menu Expand AWS Hive Power BI Big Data Informatica Qlikview Cassandra MicroStrategy Tableau Cognos MongoDB Talend Data Warehousing NiFi ZooKeeper DevOps OBIEE Pentaho HBase Live ProjectExpand child menu Expand Live Agile Testing Live Selenium Project Live HP ALM Live Selenium 2 Live Java Project Live Security Testing Live Mobile Testing Live Testing Project Live Payment Gateway Live Testing 2 Live PHP Project Live Telecom Live Projects Hub Live UFT/QTP Testing Live Python Project Live SEO Project AIExpand child menu Expand Artificial Intelligence PyTorch Data Science R Programming Keras TensorFlow NLTK Blog Toggle Menu Close Search for: Search