https://www.guru99.com/best-ecommerce-platform.html 25 BEST eCommerce Platforms (Jul 2022 List) Skip to content Home Testing Expand Agile Testing JUnit Quality Center(ALM) Bugzilla HP Loadrunner RPA Cucumber Software Testing SAP Testing Database Testing Mobile Testing Selenium ETL Testing Mantis SoapUI JMeter Postman TEST Management JIRA QTP TestLink SAP Expand ABAP CRM PI/PO APO Crystal Reports PP Beginners FICO SD Basis HANA SAPUI5 BODS HR Security Tutorial BI/BW MM Solution Manager BPC QM Successfactors CO Payroll SAP Tutorial Web Expand Apache Java PHP SQL Server AngularJS JSP PL/SQL UML ASP.NET Kotlin PostgreSQL VB.NET C Linux Python VBScript C# MariaDB ReactJS Web Services C++ MS Access Ruby & Rails WPF CodeIgniter MySQL Scala SQLite DBMS Node.js SQL Perl JavaScript Must Learn Expand Accounting Embedded Systems Operating System Algorithms Ethical Hacking PMP Android Excel Tutorial Photoshop Blockchain Go Programming Project Management Business Analyst IoT Reviews Build Website ITIL Salesforce Cloud Computing Jenkins SEO COBOL MIS Software Engineering Compiler Design Movie VBA Courses Networking VPN Big Data Expand AWS Hive Power BI Big Data Informatica Qlikview Cassandra MicroStrategy Tableau Cognos MongoDB Talend Data Warehousing NiFi ZooKeeper DevOps OBIEE Pentaho HBase Live Project Expand Live Agile Testing Live Selenium Project Live HP ALM Live Selenium 2 Live Java Project Live Security Testing Live Mobile Testing Live Testing Project Live Payment Gateway Live Testing 2 Live PHP Project Live Telecom Live Projects Hub Live UFT/QTP Testing Live Python Project Live SEO Project AI Expand Artificial Intelligence PyTorch Data Science R Programming Keras TensorFlow NLTK Blog Search Toggle Menu 25 BEST eCommerce Platforms (Jul 2022 List) ByMatthew Martin Hours UpdatedMay 26, 2022 An eCommerce platform is a software application that helps online businesses to manage their website, sales, marketing, and operations. It allows you to easily sell your goods and services online. These platforms take care of order tracking, payments, refunds, and replacement processes. It also provides you monthly, weekly, or yearly profit or loss reports of product sales. Following is a handpicked list of Top eCommerce platforms with their popular features and website links. The list contains both Open Source (Free) and Commercial (Paid) eCommerce software: List of Best eCommerce Platforms: [Free/Paid] Platform Best For Free Trial Link Wix eCommerce E-commerce Stores ✔️ Learn More BigCommerce E-commerce Stores ✔️ Learn More Ecwid E-commerce Stores ✔️ Learn More Weebly Enterprise Stores ✔️ Learn More Sellfy For Beginners ✔️ Learn More 1) Wix eCommerce Wix is easy to use, beginner-friendly website builder in the industry. This eCommerce builder allows you to drag and drop elements anywhere you want on any page. Features: It helps you to create a personal blog, a portfolio website, or even an online store. Offers 500+ themes and templates. It comes with a large number of templates filtered into many categories. Offers features to send & manage invoices. Allows creating multilingual stores. You can track traffic with Google Analytics. More Information >> 2) BigCommerce BigCommerce is a modern-day online store platform. It offers fully customizable themes with built-in HTML, CSS, and Javascript. Features: Allow you to build your site on WordPress with a full back-end platform. You can preview posts and pages before publishing. Multi-channel selling capabilities. It allows you to develop a mobile responsive eCommerce store. Helps you get more traffic with customizable and SEO-friendly URLs. More Information >> 3) Ecwid Ecwid is an online eCommerce platform that helps you create an online store and sell your products across your website, social media, marketplaces like Amazon and live in-person. It helps you to update product names, prices, and descriptions with ease. Features: Offers easy-to-use marketing tools like Google and Facebook advertising to grow your business It helps you to control everything from a single dashboard with a centralized inventory. You can share your products on Facebook and Instagram. Offers push notification every time an order is placed, or a payment has been accepted. More Information >> 4) Weebly Weebly is an easy-to-use drag-and-drop eCommerce website builder. This eCommerce tool offers 50 customized templates that help you to create a customized store for your business. Features: Weebly offers a free plan for a limited period, which allows you to try it out on a small scale before paying. Offers built-in easy-to-understand SEO guides. It allows you to change the blog template. More Information >> 5) Sellfy Sellfy is a simple and powerful e-Commerce platform for creators. It allows you to sell digital products, physical goods, and subscriptions all from one place. Features: You can sell your products on social media or your website. Allows you to use email marketing, discount codes, and upselling features to increase your sales. It helps you to create a storefront in 5 minutes. Provides layered mega menu and drop-down menu capabilities. It helps store customers to purchase multiple items at once. It offers mobile-optimized stores and a flawless checkout experience. Allows you to send product updates to existing customers More Information >> 6) 2Checkout 2Checkout is an all-in-one monetization platform that maximizes your revenues and makes global digital sales easier. It is the most flexible digital eCommerce platform that can give your business a real boost. Features: 2Checkout uses real-time Geo-IP detection to offer a relevant buying experience to users. It offers advanced capabilities for software and digital goods. Allows you to keep testing for an optimized buyer’s journey. You can sell any product, any model, via any channel. More Information >> 7) Squarespace Squarespace is an eCommerce platform that is known for its professionally designed templates. This tool also offers blogging features that combine hosting, templates, themes, CMS, eCommerce, and technical support in one solution. Features: Offers modern design templates. You can adjust the styling of your site along with fonts, colors, and page configurations. Customizable content layouts. It allows you to add your personalized CSS and other coding. Easy-to-use and straightforward editor interface. Provides social media-supported platform. More Information >> 8) FastSpring FastSpring’s easy-to-use, full-service eCommerce platform includes everything you need to sell online globally and successfully using SaaS. Features: Global payments, localization, pricing flexibility, and automated correspondence. This eCommerce platform supports all popular payment methods and 15+ languages. It helps you to reduce cart abandonment with full-service eCommerce solutions. Allows you to eliminate complexity and risk. More Information >> 9) Shopify Shopify is an eCommerce platform that allows you to sell your products and services online. It is an all-in-one eCommerce solution designed for catering to your online business needs. Features: Stores are mobile-friendly. Manual order creation. Real-time shipping calculations supported by more carriers. More than 100 professional themes. Enterprise expansion is available via Shopify Plus. Incorporate product star ratings & reviews. Extensive order fulfillment & shipping capabilities. Integration with Amazon Marketplace. Unlimited file storage on all plans. Link: https://www.shopify.in/ 10) Magento Magento is an e-commerce platform that provides online merchants with exceptional flexibility and control over the content, looks, and functionalities of their e-commerce store. Features: Supports reporting and analytics. Allows product and catalog browsing. Provides order and site management features. It offers various types of marketing promotions and tools. It provides International customer support. Link: https://magento.com/ 11) Volusion Volusion is an ideal option for businesses selling physical products online. It offers responsive themes to create a unique store for your products without coding. It provides an easy-to-use website builder with drag and drops features and on-page editing. Features: Responsive themes. Help customers locate items quickly and easily. It allows uploading images, managing SEO all in one place. You can showcase your brand across your site with built-in promotional tools. Enables you to expand your sales potential with state-of-the-art shipping integration. Link: https://www.volusion.com/ 12) PrestaShop PrestaShop is an e-commerce solution with all the features you need to create an online store and grow your business. It offers a mobile-optimized platform, which allows you to select between various eCommerce store themes. Features: It allows you to share your content and your blog on social networks to attract more visitors. PrestaShop platform allows you to create an online store in several different languages and currencies, as your business has no borders. You can select colors, logos, and designs among a selection of professional-looking themes. It helps you to manage store products, orders, customer relationships and track your statistics. Link: https://www.prestashop.com/en 13) Opencart Opencart is an eCommerce platform that allows you to set advanced user privileges. This tool also helps you to separate access for user groups and users. This eCommerce site also helps you to manage multiple stores from one admin interface. Features: It provides the biggest eCommerce selections of modules and themes to expand your store functionality. OpenCart offers a free online community and dedicated commercial support. Allows you to easily manage products, customers, orders, tax rules, coupon codes, and more. Provides powerful store management. Link: https://www.opencart.com/ 14) Big Cartel Big Cartel is an eCommerce platform that helps you build a unique online store, sell your work, and run a creative business. Features: It helps you to customize free themes to set the look and feel of your online shop. Allows you to select an affordable business plan which suits your business needs. It allows you to manage your store, fulfill orders, update products, check stats, and run promotions. Link: https://www.bigcartel.com/ 15) nopCommerce nopCommerce is easy to use, and open-source eCommerce platform. It offers easy integration and limitless customization opportunities. Features: Allows you to launch and scale your online store with rich built-in functionalities. It enables SMB to Enterprise level businesses to quickly launch and scale their online store. Allows you to use multi-vendor and multi-store functionalities. Offers security features for all types of businesses. Link: https://www.nopcommerce.com/ 16) SiteBuilder SiteBuilder is an easy-to-use eCommerce platform. It allows you to create a small business website, blog, or even an eCommerce website with a few clicks. Features: It offers an easy drag and 41drops website builder to create your website. Templates are optimized for mobile, tablets, and desktop computers. Provides live chat and phone support for technical assistance, so you can quickly get started. Link: https://www.sitebuilder.com/ 17) Shift4Shop Shift4Shop offers a wide variety of different plans which support all types of online stores. This platform comes with integrated SEO tools and a CRM to keep all of your essential data and tools in one place. Features: Allows you to add an unlimited number of products. Automatic shipping rates. Shopping cart saving. Offers single-page checkouts. 24/7 online chat and ticket support. Link: https://www.shift4shop.com/ 18) Easy Digital Downloads Easy Digital Downloads is an eCommerce platform designed to meet your online business needs. It helps you sell digital products online by creating discount codes to encourage customers. Features: Allows your customers to purchase multiple digital products at once. You can access sales and product information in either JSON or XML format. It helps your customers to download their purchased files with ease. Link: https://easydigitaldownloads.com/ 19) Miva Miva is the Ultimate eCommerce platform for driving sales to your business. It helps you create an online store of your business with one of Miva’s certified agency partners. Features: Provides shipping and warehouse integrations. Dynamic product recommendations. Accounting and marketing integrations. Easy navigation and effective inventory management. Link: https://www.miva.com/ 20) Optimizely Optimizely is an eCommerce development platform that allows merchandisers to create, preview, and publish digital commerce campaigns. It helps you to organize, track, and publish your content quickly. Features: Easily integrates into the back office. It allows you to manage your catalog and inventory. It supports physical locations with a digital channel. Offers an integrated solution for CMS and commerce. Link: https://www.optimizely.com/ 21) Salesforce B2C Commerce Salesforce B2C Commerce is an eCommerce solution that helps you create unified and intelligent digital commerce. Features: It helps you convert more shoppers with seamless B2C eCommerce transactions. It helps you reduce abandoned carts with proven best practices. It offers a complete suite of mobile-first capabilities, data-driven mobile UC, responsive design, and one-touch payment. It enables you to empower customer service teams. Link: https://www.salesforce.com/in/products/commerce-cloud/ecommerce/ 22) WooCommerce WooCommerce is an open-source, completely customizable eCommerce platform. It is free to download and install on your WordPress site. You can customize your store by adding more than 300 extensions from the WooCommerce Extensions Store. Features: WooCommerce seamlessly integrates commerce with content. It is built with a REST API, which is scalable and can virtually integrate with any service. It allows you to add and feature offers to extend the functionality of your store with official extensions from the WooCommerce Marketplace. It comes with a REST API to manage everything from products to orders. Link: https://woocommerce.com/ 23) j2store j2store is a shopping cart extension for people using Joomla as a CMS. It allows you to build your online store and helps your customers find products they want easily. Features: Offers Joomla shopping cart extension. You can manage your products efficiently. Allows you to use Joomla articles to build your catalog. It offers 60+ app integrations. Compatible with 75+ payment gateways. Link: https://www.j2store.org/ 24) CoreCommerce CoreCommerce is an all-in-one hosted store with a fully integrated eCommerce platform. It allows you to collect cards and check payments online with Hosted Payments pages. Features: Enables commerce on an existing website. It offers an admin dashboard, which helps you to maximize business operations. Provides free, modern template options, including mobile-responsive designs. Offers built-in, customizable email templates. Integrates with marketing tools to support high-quality, personalized customer contact. Link: https://www.corecommerce.com/ 25) Yo-Kart Yo-Kart is a customizable eCommerce platform that helps you launch an eCommerce store with ease. It offers an option for advanced order management and eWallet management. Features: Offers product catalog system. Product reviews & ratings. Provides multiple payment options. 15 pre-integrated payment gateways. Advanced order management. Offers eWallet management. Link: https://www.yo-kart.com/ 26) eComchain eComchain marketplace has an intuitive interface with an admin dashboard. It allows administrators to add products, view categories, manage orders and sales. eComchain platform also allows you to set up a supplier fee based on a plan the supplier picks. Features: You can access suppliers’ profiles, products, and orders. Allows you to add multiple suppliers. Enables you to set up activities and disable the supplier’s administrative access. You can assign a product to any supplier. It synchronizes products and orders from the eComchain store to the Marketplace set up by the administrator. Link: https://ecomchain.com/marketplace 27) WebSelf WebSelf is an eCommerce store development website that helps you to create your free eCommerce website. It also allows you to add text and images to your eCommerce store products. Features: Helps you to publish your site on the web. It allows you to create a free website with ease. It allows you to create your customized eCommerce website in just a few steps. You can add text and images to products. It enables you to publish your site on the web in a few steps. Link: https://en.webself.net/ FAQ: ❓ What is an eCommerce platform? An eCommerce platform is a software application that helps online businesses to manage their website, sales, marketing, and operations. It allows you to easily sell your goods and services online. These platforms take care of order tracking, payments, refunds, replacement processes. It also provides you monthly, weekly, or yearly profit or loss reports of sales. 💻 Which are the Best eCommerce Platforms? Below are some of the best eCommerce platforms: Wix eCommerce BigCommerce Ecwid Weebly Sellfy 2Checkout Squarespace FastSpring ⚡ How Do eCommerce Platforms Work? eCommerce platforms contain eCommerce website builders, accounting management, inventory management system, and customer service management system all in one place. All these tools combined help businesses manage their website, sales, marketing, and operations easily. It allows you to easily sell your goods, services and takes care of order tracking, payments, refunds, and replacement processes. 🏅 What are the important features of the eCommerce platform? Here are the important features of the eCommerce platform: Content management capabilities. An easy-to-use checkout. Search Engine Optimized code and layout. Reporting tools. An integrated blog or articles section to reach the website users. Email marketing integration. 🚀 Why use the eCommerce platform? Here are some benefits of using an eCommerce platform: Consumers can get descriptions and details about your products from an online product catalog. Helps you to attract new customers with Search Engine visibility and promotions. Offers complete automation of checkout, billing, inventory management, and payments. The eCommerce platform helps you to keep track of consumers’ buying habits. Helps you to sell products across the World. 👉 How to choose the Best eCommerce Platform? Here are the factors you should consider while choosing the best eCommerce platform for your business: Easy to set up and use Price Mobile-friendliness Integration with other software Themes and customizations offered Support for SEO and promotion tools Customer support Centralized control for all operations with a single dashboard Accounting and marketing integrations Insights, reporting, and analytics support Post navigation Report a Bug Previous Prev Next Continue Top Tutorials About About Us Advertise with Us Write For Us Contact Us Python Testing Hacking Career Suggestion SAP Career Suggestion Tool Software Testing as a Career Interesting eBook Blog Quiz SAP eBook SAP Java SQL Execute online Execute Java Online Execute Javascript Execute HTML Execute Python Selenium Cryptocurrency VPNs © Copyright - Guru99 2022 Privacy Policy | Affiliate Disclaimer | ToS Scroll to top Home TestingExpand child menu Expand Agile Testing JUnit Quality Center(ALM) Bugzilla HP Loadrunner RPA Cucumber Software Testing SAP Testing Database Testing Mobile Testing Selenium ETL Testing Mantis SoapUI JMeter Postman TEST Management JIRA QTP TestLink SAPExpand child menu Expand ABAP CRM PI/PO APO Crystal Reports PP Beginners FICO SD Basis HANA SAPUI5 BODS HR Security Tutorial BI/BW MM Solution Manager BPC QM Successfactors CO Payroll SAP Tutorial WebExpand child menu Expand Apache Java PHP SQL Server AngularJS JSP PL/SQL UML ASP.NET Kotlin PostgreSQL VB.NET C Linux Python VBScript C# MariaDB ReactJS Web Services C++ MS Access Ruby & Rails WPF CodeIgniter MySQL Scala SQLite DBMS Node.js SQL Perl JavaScript Must LearnExpand child menu Expand Accounting Embedded Systems Operating System Algorithms Ethical Hacking PMP Android Excel Tutorial Photoshop Blockchain Go Programming Project Management Business Analyst IoT Reviews Build Website ITIL Salesforce Cloud Computing Jenkins SEO COBOL MIS Software Engineering Compiler Design Movie VBA Courses Networking VPN Big DataExpand child menu Expand AWS Hive Power BI Big Data Informatica Qlikview Cassandra MicroStrategy Tableau Cognos MongoDB Talend Data Warehousing NiFi ZooKeeper DevOps OBIEE Pentaho HBase Live ProjectExpand child menu Expand Live Agile Testing Live Selenium Project Live HP ALM Live Selenium 2 Live Java Project Live Security Testing Live Mobile Testing Live Testing Project Live Payment Gateway Live Testing 2 Live PHP Project Live Telecom Live Projects Hub Live UFT/QTP Testing Live Python Project Live SEO Project AIExpand child menu Expand Artificial Intelligence PyTorch Data Science R Programming Keras TensorFlow NLTK Blog Toggle Menu Close Search for: Searchhttps://www.guru99.com/best-ecommerce-platform.html 25 BEST eCommerce Platforms (Jul 2022 List) Skip to content Home Testing Expand Agile Testing JUnit Quality Center(ALM) Bugzilla HP Loadrunner RPA Cucumber Software Testing SAP Testing Database Testing Mobile Testing Selenium ETL Testing Mantis SoapUI JMeter Postman TEST Management JIRA QTP TestLink SAP Expand ABAP CRM PI/PO APO Crystal Reports PP Beginners FICO SD Basis HANA SAPUI5 BODS HR Security Tutorial BI/BW MM Solution Manager BPC QM Successfactors CO Payroll SAP Tutorial Web Expand Apache Java PHP SQL Server AngularJS JSP PL/SQL UML ASP.NET Kotlin PostgreSQL VB.NET C Linux Python VBScript C# MariaDB ReactJS Web Services C++ MS Access Ruby & Rails WPF CodeIgniter MySQL Scala SQLite DBMS Node.js SQL Perl JavaScript Must Learn Expand Accounting Embedded Systems Operating System Algorithms Ethical Hacking PMP Android Excel Tutorial Photoshop Blockchain Go Programming Project Management Business Analyst IoT Reviews Build Website ITIL Salesforce Cloud Computing Jenkins SEO COBOL MIS Software Engineering Compiler Design Movie VBA Courses Networking VPN Big Data Expand AWS Hive Power BI Big Data Informatica Qlikview Cassandra MicroStrategy Tableau Cognos MongoDB Talend Data Warehousing NiFi ZooKeeper DevOps OBIEE Pentaho HBase Live Project Expand Live Agile Testing Live Selenium Project Live HP ALM Live Selenium 2 Live Java Project Live Security Testing Live Mobile Testing Live Testing Project Live Payment Gateway Live Testing 2 Live PHP Project Live Telecom Live Projects Hub Live UFT/QTP Testing Live Python Project Live SEO Project AI Expand Artificial Intelligence PyTorch Data Science R Programming Keras TensorFlow NLTK Blog Search Toggle Menu 25 BEST eCommerce Platforms (Jul 2022 List) ByMatthew Martin Hours UpdatedMay 26, 2022 An eCommerce platform is a software application that helps online businesses to manage their website, sales, marketing, and operations. It allows you to easily sell your goods and services online. These platforms take care of order tracking, payments, refunds, and replacement processes. It also provides you monthly, weekly, or yearly profit or loss reports of product sales. Following is a handpicked list of Top eCommerce platforms with their popular features and website links. The list contains both Open Source (Free) and Commercial (Paid) eCommerce software: List of Best eCommerce Platforms: [Free/Paid] Platform Best For Free Trial Link Wix eCommerce E-commerce Stores ✔️ Learn More BigCommerce E-commerce Stores ✔️ Learn More Ecwid E-commerce Stores ✔️ Learn More Weebly Enterprise Stores ✔️ Learn More Sellfy For Beginners ✔️ Learn More 1) Wix eCommerce Wix is easy to use, beginner-friendly website builder in the industry. This eCommerce builder allows you to drag and drop elements anywhere you want on any page. Features: It helps you to create a personal blog, a portfolio website, or even an online store. Offers 500+ themes and templates. It comes with a large number of templates filtered into many categories. Offers features to send & manage invoices. Allows creating multilingual stores. You can track traffic with Google Analytics. More Information >> 2) BigCommerce BigCommerce is a modern-day online store platform. It offers fully customizable themes with built-in HTML, CSS, and Javascript. Features: Allow you to build your site on WordPress with a full back-end platform. You can preview posts and pages before publishing. Multi-channel selling capabilities. It allows you to develop a mobile responsive eCommerce store. Helps you get more traffic with customizable and SEO-friendly URLs. More Information >> 3) Ecwid Ecwid is an online eCommerce platform that helps you create an online store and sell your products across your website, social media, marketplaces like Amazon and live in-person. It helps you to update product names, prices, and descriptions with ease. Features: Offers easy-to-use marketing tools like Google and Facebook advertising to grow your business It helps you to control everything from a single dashboard with a centralized inventory. You can share your products on Facebook and Instagram. Offers push notification every time an order is placed, or a payment has been accepted. More Information >> 4) Weebly Weebly is an easy-to-use drag-and-drop eCommerce website builder. This eCommerce tool offers 50 customized templates that help you to create a customized store for your business. Features: Weebly offers a free plan for a limited period, which allows you to try it out on a small scale before paying. Offers built-in easy-to-understand SEO guides. It allows you to change the blog template. More Information >> 5) Sellfy Sellfy is a simple and powerful e-Commerce platform for creators. It allows you to sell digital products, physical goods, and subscriptions all from one place. Features: You can sell your products on social media or your website. Allows you to use email marketing, discount codes, and upselling features to increase your sales. It helps you to create a storefront in 5 minutes. Provides layered mega menu and drop-down menu capabilities. It helps store customers to purchase multiple items at once. It offers mobile-optimized stores and a flawless checkout experience. Allows you to send product updates to existing customers More Information >> 6) 2Checkout 2Checkout is an all-in-one monetization platform that maximizes your revenues and makes global digital sales easier. It is the most flexible digital eCommerce platform that can give your business a real boost. Features: 2Checkout uses real-time Geo-IP detection to offer a relevant buying experience to users. It offers advanced capabilities for software and digital goods. Allows you to keep testing for an optimized buyer’s journey. You can sell any product, any model, via any channel. More Information >> 7) Squarespace Squarespace is an eCommerce platform that is known for its professionally designed templates. This tool also offers blogging features that combine hosting, templates, themes, CMS, eCommerce, and technical support in one solution. Features: Offers modern design templates. You can adjust the styling of your site along with fonts, colors, and page configurations. Customizable content layouts. It allows you to add your personalized CSS and other coding. Easy-to-use and straightforward editor interface. Provides social media-supported platform. More Information >> 8) FastSpring FastSpring’s easy-to-use, full-service eCommerce platform includes everything you need to sell online globally and successfully using SaaS. Features: Global payments, localization, pricing flexibility, and automated correspondence. This eCommerce platform supports all popular payment methods and 15+ languages. It helps you to reduce cart abandonment with full-service eCommerce solutions. Allows you to eliminate complexity and risk. More Information >> 9) Shopify Shopify is an eCommerce platform that allows you to sell your products and services online. It is an all-in-one eCommerce solution designed for catering to your online business needs. Features: Stores are mobile-friendly. Manual order creation. Real-time shipping calculations supported by more carriers. More than 100 professional themes. Enterprise expansion is available via Shopify Plus. Incorporate product star ratings & reviews. Extensive order fulfillment & shipping capabilities. Integration with Amazon Marketplace. Unlimited file storage on all plans. Link: https://www.shopify.in/ 10) Magento Magento is an e-commerce platform that provides online merchants with exceptional flexibility and control over the content, looks, and functionalities of their e-commerce store. Features: Supports reporting and analytics. Allows product and catalog browsing. Provides order and site management features. It offers various types of marketing promotions and tools. It provides International customer support. Link: https://magento.com/ 11) Volusion Volusion is an ideal option for businesses selling physical products online. It offers responsive themes to create a unique store for your products without coding. It provides an easy-to-use website builder with drag and drops features and on-page editing. Features: Responsive themes. Help customers locate items quickly and easily. It allows uploading images, managing SEO all in one place. You can showcase your brand across your site with built-in promotional tools. Enables you to expand your sales potential with state-of-the-art shipping integration. Link: https://www.volusion.com/ 12) PrestaShop PrestaShop is an e-commerce solution with all the features you need to create an online store and grow your business. It offers a mobile-optimized platform, which allows you to select between various eCommerce store themes. Features: It allows you to share your content and your blog on social networks to attract more visitors. PrestaShop platform allows you to create an online store in several different languages and currencies, as your business has no borders. You can select colors, logos, and designs among a selection of professional-looking themes. It helps you to manage store products, orders, customer relationships and track your statistics. Link: https://www.prestashop.com/en 13) Opencart Opencart is an eCommerce platform that allows you to set advanced user privileges. This tool also helps you to separate access for user groups and users. This eCommerce site also helps you to manage multiple stores from one admin interface. Features: It provides the biggest eCommerce selections of modules and themes to expand your store functionality. OpenCart offers a free online community and dedicated commercial support. Allows you to easily manage products, customers, orders, tax rules, coupon codes, and more. Provides powerful store management. Link: https://www.opencart.com/ 14) Big Cartel Big Cartel is an eCommerce platform that helps you build a unique online store, sell your work, and run a creative business. Features: It helps you to customize free themes to set the look and feel of your online shop. Allows you to select an affordable business plan which suits your business needs. It allows you to manage your store, fulfill orders, update products, check stats, and run promotions. Link: https://www.bigcartel.com/ 15) nopCommerce nopCommerce is easy to use, and open-source eCommerce platform. It offers easy integration and limitless customization opportunities. Features: Allows you to launch and scale your online store with rich built-in functionalities. It enables SMB to Enterprise level businesses to quickly launch and scale their online store. Allows you to use multi-vendor and multi-store functionalities. Offers security features for all types of businesses. Link: https://www.nopcommerce.com/ 16) SiteBuilder SiteBuilder is an easy-to-use eCommerce platform. It allows you to create a small business website, blog, or even an eCommerce website with a few clicks. Features: It offers an easy drag and 41drops website builder to create your website. Templates are optimized for mobile, tablets, and desktop computers. Provides live chat and phone support for technical assistance, so you can quickly get started. Link: https://www.sitebuilder.com/ 17) Shift4Shop Shift4Shop offers a wide variety of different plans which support all types of online stores. This platform comes with integrated SEO tools and a CRM to keep all of your essential data and tools in one place. Features: Allows you to add an unlimited number of products. Automatic shipping rates. Shopping cart saving. Offers single-page checkouts. 24/7 online chat and ticket support. Link: https://www.shift4shop.com/ 18) Easy Digital Downloads Easy Digital Downloads is an eCommerce platform designed to meet your online business needs. It helps you sell digital products online by creating discount codes to encourage customers. Features: Allows your customers to purchase multiple digital products at once. You can access sales and product information in either JSON or XML format. It helps your customers to download their purchased files with ease. Link: https://easydigitaldownloads.com/ 19) Miva Miva is the Ultimate eCommerce platform for driving sales to your business. It helps you create an online store of your business with one of Miva’s certified agency partners. Features: Provides shipping and warehouse integrations. Dynamic product recommendations. Accounting and marketing integrations. Easy navigation and effective inventory management. Link: https://www.miva.com/ 20) Optimizely Optimizely is an eCommerce development platform that allows merchandisers to create, preview, and publish digital commerce campaigns. It helps you to organize, track, and publish your content quickly. Features: Easily integrates into the back office. It allows you to manage your catalog and inventory. It supports physical locations with a digital channel. Offers an integrated solution for CMS and commerce. Link: https://www.optimizely.com/ 21) Salesforce B2C Commerce Salesforce B2C Commerce is an eCommerce solution that helps you create unified and intelligent digital commerce. Features: It helps you convert more shoppers with seamless B2C eCommerce transactions. It helps you reduce abandoned carts with proven best practices. It offers a complete suite of mobile-first capabilities, data-driven mobile UC, responsive design, and one-touch payment. It enables you to empower customer service teams. Link: https://www.salesforce.com/in/products/commerce-cloud/ecommerce/ 22) WooCommerce WooCommerce is an open-source, completely customizable eCommerce platform. It is free to download and install on your WordPress site. You can customize your store by adding more than 300 extensions from the WooCommerce Extensions Store. Features: WooCommerce seamlessly integrates commerce with content. It is built with a REST API, which is scalable and can virtually integrate with any service. It allows you to add and feature offers to extend the functionality of your store with official extensions from the WooCommerce Marketplace. It comes with a REST API to manage everything from products to orders. Link: https://woocommerce.com/ 23) j2store j2store is a shopping cart extension for people using Joomla as a CMS. It allows you to build your online store and helps your customers find products they want easily. Features: Offers Joomla shopping cart extension. You can manage your products efficiently. Allows you to use Joomla articles to build your catalog. It offers 60+ app integrations. Compatible with 75+ payment gateways. Link: https://www.j2store.org/ 24) CoreCommerce CoreCommerce is an all-in-one hosted store with a fully integrated eCommerce platform. It allows you to collect cards and check payments online with Hosted Payments pages. Features: Enables commerce on an existing website. It offers an admin dashboard, which helps you to maximize business operations. Provides free, modern template options, including mobile-responsive designs. Offers built-in, customizable email templates. Integrates with marketing tools to support high-quality, personalized customer contact. Link: https://www.corecommerce.com/ 25) Yo-Kart Yo-Kart is a customizable eCommerce platform that helps you launch an eCommerce store with ease. It offers an option for advanced order management and eWallet management. Features: Offers product catalog system. Product reviews & ratings. Provides multiple payment options. 15 pre-integrated payment gateways. Advanced order management. Offers eWallet management. Link: https://www.yo-kart.com/ 26) eComchain eComchain marketplace has an intuitive interface with an admin dashboard. It allows administrators to add products, view categories, manage orders and sales. eComchain platform also allows you to set up a supplier fee based on a plan the supplier picks. Features: You can access suppliers’ profiles, products, and orders. Allows you to add multiple suppliers. Enables you to set up activities and disable the supplier’s administrative access. You can assign a product to any supplier. It synchronizes products and orders from the eComchain store to the Marketplace set up by the administrator. Link: https://ecomchain.com/marketplace 27) WebSelf WebSelf is an eCommerce store development website that helps you to create your free eCommerce website. It also allows you to add text and images to your eCommerce store products. Features: Helps you to publish your site on the web. It allows you to create a free website with ease. It allows you to create your customized eCommerce website in just a few steps. You can add text and images to products. It enables you to publish your site on the web in a few steps. Link: https://en.webself.net/ FAQ: ❓ What is an eCommerce platform? An eCommerce platform is a software application that helps online businesses to manage their website, sales, marketing, and operations. It allows you to easily sell your goods and services online. These platforms take care of order tracking, payments, refunds, replacement processes. It also provides you monthly, weekly, or yearly profit or loss reports of sales. 💻 Which are the Best eCommerce Platforms? Below are some of the best eCommerce platforms: Wix eCommerce BigCommerce Ecwid Weebly Sellfy 2Checkout Squarespace FastSpring ⚡ How Do eCommerce Platforms Work? eCommerce platforms contain eCommerce website builders, accounting management, inventory management system, and customer service management system all in one place. All these tools combined help businesses manage their website, sales, marketing, and operations easily. It allows you to easily sell your goods, services and takes care of order tracking, payments, refunds, and replacement processes. 🏅 What are the important features of the eCommerce platform? Here are the important features of the eCommerce platform: Content management capabilities. An easy-to-use checkout. Search Engine Optimized code and layout. Reporting tools. An integrated blog or articles section to reach the website users. Email marketing integration. 🚀 Why use the eCommerce platform? Here are some benefits of using an eCommerce platform: Consumers can get descriptions and details about your products from an online product catalog. Helps you to attract new customers with Search Engine visibility and promotions. Offers complete automation of checkout, billing, inventory management, and payments. The eCommerce platform helps you to keep track of consumers’ buying habits. Helps you to sell products across the World. 👉 How to choose the Best eCommerce Platform? Here are the factors you should consider while choosing the best eCommerce platform for your business: Easy to set up and use Price Mobile-friendliness Integration with other software Themes and customizations offered Support for SEO and promotion tools Customer support Centralized control for all operations with a single dashboard Accounting and marketing integrations Insights, reporting, and analytics support Post navigation Report a Bug Previous Prev Next Continue Top Tutorials About About Us Advertise with Us Write For Us Contact Us Python Testing Hacking Career Suggestion SAP Career Suggestion Tool Software Testing as a Career Interesting eBook Blog Quiz SAP eBook SAP Java SQL Execute online Execute Java Online Execute Javascript Execute HTML Execute Python Selenium Cryptocurrency VPNs © Copyright - Guru99 2022 Privacy Policy | Affiliate Disclaimer | ToS Scroll to top Home TestingExpand child menu Expand Agile Testing JUnit Quality Center(ALM) Bugzilla HP Loadrunner RPA Cucumber Software Testing SAP Testing Database Testing Mobile Testing Selenium ETL Testing Mantis SoapUI JMeter Postman TEST Management JIRA QTP TestLink SAPExpand child menu Expand ABAP CRM PI/PO APO Crystal Reports PP Beginners FICO SD Basis HANA SAPUI5 BODS HR Security Tutorial BI/BW MM Solution Manager BPC QM Successfactors CO Payroll SAP Tutorial WebExpand child menu Expand Apache Java PHP SQL Server AngularJS JSP PL/SQL UML ASP.NET Kotlin PostgreSQL VB.NET C Linux Python VBScript C# MariaDB ReactJS Web Services C++ MS Access Ruby & Rails WPF CodeIgniter MySQL Scala SQLite DBMS Node.js SQL Perl JavaScript Must LearnExpand child menu Expand Accounting Embedded Systems Operating System Algorithms Ethical Hacking PMP Android Excel Tutorial Photoshop Blockchain Go Programming Project Management Business Analyst IoT Reviews Build Website ITIL Salesforce Cloud Computing Jenkins SEO COBOL MIS Software Engineering Compiler Design Movie VBA Courses Networking VPN Big DataExpand child menu Expand AWS Hive Power BI Big Data Informatica Qlikview Cassandra MicroStrategy Tableau Cognos MongoDB Talend Data Warehousing NiFi ZooKeeper DevOps OBIEE Pentaho HBase Live ProjectExpand child menu Expand Live Agile Testing Live Selenium Project Live HP ALM Live Selenium 2 Live Java Project Live Security Testing Live Mobile Testing Live Testing Project Live Payment Gateway Live Testing 2 Live PHP Project Live Telecom Live Projects Hub Live UFT/QTP Testing Live Python Project Live SEO Project AIExpand child menu Expand Artificial Intelligence PyTorch Data Science R Programming Keras TensorFlow NLTK Blog Toggle Menu Close Search for: Search