https://www.guru99.com/best-cloud-mining-sites-trusted.html 7 BEST Cloud Mining Sites (Bitcoin, Ethereum Mining) Skip to content Tutorial Expand Software Testing Selenium SAP Python Java Linux SQL Big Data Ethical Hacking VPNs Best Crypto Wallets Expand Best Cryptocurrency Wallet Best Ripple Wallet Best Ethereum Wallet Best Cardano Wallet Best Anonymous Wallet Best Monero Wallet Best Dogecoin Wallet Best Cold Wallet Best Crypto Wallet India BEST Bitcoin Wallets Apps Best Crypto Software Expand Best Crypto Exchanges Best Bitcoin Mining Best Cloud Mining Sites Best Crypto Trading Bots Best Ethereum Mining BEST Ethereum Cloud Mining Best Litecoin Mining Best NFT Marketplace Best Crypto Tax Best NFT to Buy BEST Crypto Staking Best Coinbase Alternatives Best Mining Pools Best Crypto Banks Best Cryptocurrency to Buy Best Copy Trading Buy Crypto Expand Buy Litecoin Buy Anonymously Buy Tron Coin Buy Dogecoin Buy Bitcoin Buy Bitcoin with Cash Buy Bitcoin with PayPal Buy Shiba Inu Coin How to Mine Crypto Expand How to Mine Bitcoin How to Mine Ethereum How to Mine Dogecoin How to Mine Monero How to Mine Electroneum Search Toggle Menu 7 BEST Cloud Mining Sites (Bitcoin, Ethereum Mining) ByBarbara Thompson Hours UpdatedJuly 25, 2022 Cloud Mining is the process of cryptocurrency mining that utilizes a remote data center with shared processing power. Mining cryptocurrencies via the cloud is an ideal way to use the power of specialized mining equipment without having to own or maintain the hardware yourself. This approach can help you save time and money while still reaping mining rewards. Many Cloud Mining Services are frauds and scam end users. Selecting a legit service that pays you consistently is a challenge. Following is a thoroughly researched list of the Top Cloud Mining sites with their features, pros, cons, key specifications, and website links. Read more… Top Cloud Crypto Mining Websites (Trusted & Legit): Free/Paid Name Founding Year Supported Coins Fraud risk Link 👍 StormGain 2019 Bitcoin, Bitcoin Cash, Ethereum, Litecoin, etc. Low Learn More 👍 ECOS 2017 Bitcoin, Ethereum, Ripple, Bitcoin Cash, Tether, Litecoin. Low Learn More Hashing24 2015 ZCash, Dash, Ethereum (ETH), Litecoin (LTC), Bitcoin (BTC) Low Learn More BeMine 2018 Bitcoin, Ethereum, Zcash. Low Learn More Scryptcube 2016 Bitcoin and Ethereum. Medium Learn More 1) StormGain Best for Experts and beginners. StormGain is an innovative Bitcoin mining software that allows you to invest in digital currency effortlessly. It features a user-friendly dashboard that helps you monitor assets rising and falling. This application also has powerful charting tools to track trends and price movements. #1 Top Pick StormGain Founding Year: 2019 Supported coins: Bitcoin, Bitcoin Cash, Ethereum, Litecoin, etc. Payout Frequency: Daily Fraud risk: Low Learn More Features: It protects your cryptocurrency by keeping it in a secure wallet. You have the option to choose the payment that best suits your needs. StormGain is available in a variety of languages, including English, French, Spanish, and Italian. You can mine digital currency without expensive equipment. It has an easy sign-up process. Up to 12% interest rates on your funds. 👍 Pros 👎 Cons User-friendly interface. The system needs to be properly regulated. It supports a range of cryptocurrency trading. There is no in-built bot to automate trading. Gives up to 20% Bonus on every deposit. It is supported by 230+ countries. Key Specs: Found year: 2019 Supported coins: Bitcoin, Bitcoin Cash, Ethereum, Litecoin, etc. Minimum Investment: $100 Minimum Payouts: 50 USD Payout Frequency: Daily Price: No maintenance fees, only trading commission Fraud risk: Low More Information >> 2) ECOS Best for Its operating system, which works with legal status. ECOS is the most trusted cloud mining provider in the industry. It was established in 2017 in the Free Economic Zone. It is the first cloud mining service provider that is operating with legal status. ECOS has more than 100,000+ users from all over the world. It is first cryptocurrency investment platform with a complete suite of digital asset products and tools. #2 ECOS Founding Year: 2017 Supported coins: Bitcoin, Ethereum, Ripple, Bitcoin Cash, Tether, Litecoin. Payout Frequency: Daily Fraud risk: Low Learn More Features: Convenient calculator on the website for choosing a mining contract Daily payments and detailed transaction history ECOS is more than just a cloud mining platform – it also offers a wallet, exchange, investment portfolios, and savings feature. You can download the ECOS mobile app from either the App Store or Google Play. It is a convenient way to access your account and perform various tasks. Use Coupon code “GURU” and get a free cloud mining contract for 1 month. 👍 Pros 👎 Cons It provides payments on a daily basis. Only BTC mining The low minimum withdrawal from 0.001 BTC. Offers a wide range of cloud mining contracts Key Specs: Found year: 2017 Supported coins: Bitcoin, Ethereum, Ripple, Bitcoin Cash, Tether, Litecoin. Minimum Investment: $150 Minimum Payouts: 0.001 BTC. Payout Frequency: Daily Price: Plan starting at $0.75 TH/S per month. Fraud risk: Low More Information >> 3) Hashing24 Best for Individuals who wish to access Bitcoin mining. Hashing24 is one of the most accessible cloud mining providers for individuals interested in Bitcoin mining technology. This user-friendly Bitcoin cloud mining software comes with 24/7 customer support. This software allows you to mine cryptocurrency without purchasing any equipment. It provides access to data centers in the real world. It can automatically deposit your mined coins into your balance. #3 Hashing24 Founding Year: 2015 Supported coins: ZCash, Dash, Ethereum (ETH), Litecoin (LTC), Bitcoin (BTC) Payout Frequency: Once per day Fraud risk: Low Learn More Features: The website provides a convenient calculator to help you choose the best mining contract. Hashing 24 offers daily payments. This cloud mining site offers weekly promotions and auctions for registered users. Provides 100% uptime guarantee Get a free mining contract for 1 month after registration. 👍 Pros 👎 Cons A very less daily service charge of 0.033 USD or 0.00014 USD. The only cryptocurrency you can mine is Bitcoin. Good technical support is offered on a 24/7 basis. It has good earning potential. You can earn 0.000006 BTC or 0.04USD per day. Key Specs: Found year: 2015 Supported coins: ZCash, Dash, Ethereum (ETH), Litecoin (LTC), Bitcoin (BTC), Minimum Investment: 0.0001 BTC Minimum Payouts: 0.0007 BTC. Payout Frequency: Once per day Price: 1) 12- Month plan: $72.30/ 1TH/s, 2) 18- Month plan: $108.40/ 1TH/s, 3) 24-Month plan: $144.60/ 1TH/s Fraud risk: Low More Information >> 4) BeMine Best for Cloud sharing of ASIC-miners BeMine has been providing top-quality mining equipment storage services to customers worldwide since 2018. Their partnered data centers allow customers to store their equipment without the need for personal presence during purchase, transportation, installation, configuration, and maintenance. You can always buy new machines or withdraw your coins. With your personal account, you can buy miners and contracts instantly! #4 BeMine Founding Year: 2018 Supported coins: Bitcoin, Ethereum, Zcash. Payout Frequency: Daily Fraud risk: Low Learn More Features: Provides options to buy the miner and cloud contracts The ability to buy ASIC miners over time and deliver them to your door. They have many hotels partnered with them worldwide. Allows you to buy equipment as per your need, whole or in parts. 👍 Pros 👎 Cons Offers 3 days of free cloud mining trial. It does not support iOS. It has two levels of the referral program. It has a mobile app for Android users. Offers 7% on referral purchases. Key Specs: Found year: 2018 Supported coins: Bitcoin, Ethereum, Zcash. Minimum Investment: $99 Minimum Payouts: 0.005 BTC. Payout Frequency: Daily Price: 1) Antminer T17+ Plan with 64 TH/s starts at $99 2) Antminer T19 Plan with 84 TH/s starts at $182 3) Antminer S19 Plan with 110 TH/s starts at $172 Fraud risk: Low More Information >> 5) Scryptcube Best for Its minimum investment rate. Scryptcube is a great cloud mining site that allows you to participate in mining popular cryptocurrencies without any of the time-consuming and complicated processes! You will be regularly receiving the mined coins into your account. #5 ScryptCube Founding Year: 2016 Supported coins: Bitcoin and Ethereum. Payout Frequency: Daily Fraud risk: Medium Learn More Features: You can purchase packages using BTC, Visa, or MasterCard. You can check them out in real time on the account. Allows you to withdraw your earnings from the very first day of mining. Receive the mined coins into your account regularly. Get instant real-time stats on mining activity. 👍 Pros 👎 Cons ScryptCube offers accruals daily. Their mining calculator needs improvement. Packages can be bought via BTC, Visa, and MasterCard methods. They keep your profits with them and return you only the amount you have invested It has an intuitive dashboard. You get instant real-time stats on mining activity. Key Specs: Found year: 2016 Supported coins: Bitcoin and Ethereum. Minimum Investment: $1.90 Minimum Payouts: Bitcoin: 0.0001 BTC + transaction fee, Ethereum: 0.001 ETH Payout Frequency: Daily Price: 1) The bitcoin mining plan starts for 1 year at $185 per 1TH/s. 2) Ethereum mining plan starts for 1 year at $49 per 1 MH/s Fraud risk: Medium More Information >> 6) Awesome Miner Best for Maximizing profit and minimizing downtime Awesome Miner is a cloud mining service that offers a comprehensive monitoring dashboard for all your ASIC and FPGA devices from one convenient location. It helps you keep tabs on device status and temperature to optimize performance and avoid costly downtime. This mining site also provides a web-based interface for monitoring your GPU’s properties, including clock speed, fan speed, temperature, and hashing power. #6 Awesome Miner Founding Year: 2014 Supported coins: Bitcoin, Litecoin, Ethereum, etc. Payout Frequency: Daily Fraud risk: Low Learn More Features: It allows you to maximize profit and minimize downtime. It is feature-rich and flexible to serve high-demanding operations. The Profit Switching feature will ensure you are mining the most profitable coin at any given time You can set up mining pools with just one mouse click. It gives 15% higher performance for Antminer S19 and 40% for Antminer S17 You can get started with this mining contract in no time! 👍 Pros 👎 Cons It offers a free trial. Not for novice users It can work with all ASIC, GPU, and CPU devices. More than 50 mining software programs are supported. Offers a free Demo. Customized triggers and actions Key Specs: Found year: 2014 Supported coins: Bitcoin, Litecoin, Ethereum, etc. Minimum Investment: 50 USD Minimum Payouts: Depends on Bitcoin price, hash rate, and mining difficulty Payout Frequency: Daily Free Trial: Yes- with 2 miners and limited features. Price: Plan to start at $4 for 2 miners per month. Fraud risk: Low More Information >> 7) BitDeer Best For Providing direct deposit from top mining pools BitDeer is a highly trusted sharing service platform for digital asset mining machines. It is one of the best cloud mining sites that enables users to rent out their unused computing power and earn cryptocurrency. It also provides support for multiple fiat currencies. #7 Bitdeer Founding Year: 2018 Supported coins: Bitcoin, Bitcoin Cash, Litecoin, Ethereum, Dash, etc. Payout Frequency: Daily Fraud risk: Low Learn More Features: It offers customized mining solutions for professional investors. Bitdeer provides real-time analytics and also supports a smart sharing feature. Daily outputs of over 100BTC a day It provides users with information about changes in its supported pool services. It offers mobile apps for Android and iOS platforms. 👍 Pros 👎 Cons It provides regular updates on social networks Customer support is slow. It offers payout in Cryptocurrency and Cash. For beginners, the best packages are a bit too expensive. It provides an option for automatic reinvestment. Key Specs: Found Year: 2018 Supported coins: Bitcoin, Bitcoin Cash, Litecoin, Ethereum, Dash, Z Cash, etc. Minimum Payouts: 0.002 BTC Payout Frequency: Daily Price: 1) Antminer S19Pro Plan with 50 TH/s starts at $542 2) Antminer S19Pro Plan with 100 TH/s starts at $1084 3) Antminer S19Pro Plan with 200 TH/s starts at $2168 Plan. Fraud risk: Low More Information >> FAQ: ❓ What is Cloud Mining? How does it work? The process of cloud mining allows users to mine cryptocurrencies remotely using shared processing power. It is done by using a remote data center. This kind of mining helps users mine Bitcoins or other cryptocurrencies without managing the hardware. The mining rigs are housed in a facility owned by the mining company. The customer needs to register for mining contracts. Cloud mining is a process of bringing new Bitcoins into circulation. With cloud mining, you can earn money without investing. However, you need an Application-Specific Integrated Circuit (ASIC) or GPU to set up a mining rig. A miner’s goal is a cloud mining network to add individual blocks to the Blockchain by solving complex mathematical problems which require a great deal of computational and electrical power. While many miners compete to add each block, the miner who solves the problem will add the block along with its approved transactions to the Blockchain. This miner receives the reward in the account. Learn more about what is Cloud Mining? If you are interested. ⚡ What are the Best Cloud Mining websites? Following are some of the best Bitcoin Mining Pools/Cloud Mining websites: StormGain– Best for Experts and beginners. ECOS -Best for Its operating system, which works with legal status. Hashing24 – Individuals who wish to access Bitcoin mining. BeMine – Best for Cloud sharing of ASIC-miners. Scryptcube – Its minimum investment rate. Awesome Miner – Maximizing profit and minimizing downtime BitDeer – Providing direct deposit from top mining pools Also, Check: Best Bitcoin Mining Pools 🏅 What are the advantages of Cloud Mining? Here are some pros important pros of Cloud Mining: Ease of investment. You do not require to purchase any hardware equipment. You do not need any technical knowledge. You do not have to bear any operating costs. You can start right away. It offers flexibility and reliability Provides a fast return on investments. 🚀 What are the disadvantages of Cloud Mining? Here are the drawbacks/ cons of Cloud Mining: Some cloud mining services might commit fraud. You have no control over cloud mining. 🔒 Is Cloud Mining safe? There is no guarantee as to when you will find mining gear that is under your control. Therefore, it is best to invest in only those trusted mining sites. 👉 Is Cloud Mining a scam or legit? Yes, it is legit and not a scam. Cloud mining can be a great way to invest in cryptocurrency, but it’s essential to do your research and choose a reputable company. Make sure you also understand the laws and regulations in your country. 💲 How do you make money by Mining Bitcoin? You can earn money mining Bitcoin by finishing blocks of verified transactions added to the Blockchain. You will get a small portion of Bitcoin as a reward in exchange for mining. Nowadays, overall hash rates are very high, so it is not easy to profit from mining Bitcoin for an individual. ❗ Which Countries Mine the most Bitcoins? Here are countries that mine the most Bitcoins: China: This country mines approximately 60% of all new Bitcoins. Georgia: It mines about 15% of all Bitcoins. US: This country mines about 3% of all Bitcoins. Other countries: These countries mine the rest of the Bitcoins. 💥 Why are Miners Important? The digital process of mining for Bitcoins involves adding transaction records to the Blockchain. This record-keeping process requires a great deal of computing power. Each Bitcoin miner contributes to a decentralized P2P (Peer-to-Peer) network to ensure the payment network remains secure and trustworthy. The Blockchain network is a P2P network that is decentralized and has a shared ledger. There is no central authority in charge of the network, so miners record, process, and validate transactions. The data sent across the network is easily accessible, but personal Information is always kept confidential. Here, miners validate blocks of transactions to access their blocked rewards. The new cryptocurrency is introduced to the network whenever a new transaction block is added to the system. Not only do miners work to secure the network, but they also verify transactions. For the Blockchain network to operate properly, miners need to be constantly active on the network. 🏅 How to convert Bitcoin to Cash? You can convert your Bitcoins into cash by using the below methods: Using cryptocurrency exchanges Sell Bitcoins using LocalBitcoins. Use Bitcoin ATMs Spend your Bitcoins using Bitcoin Debit cards ⚡ How to mine Bitcoin at home? You can mine Bitcoin at home, but you will need to invest in the proper hardware. Bitcoin mining is a complex process, so you’ll need to ensure your hardware is up to the task. Electricity consumption is also something to keep in mind when mining Bitcoin at home. The success rate will be very low. Cryptocurrency is so popular nowadays that even a kindergarten kid can mine Bitcoins using home electricity. You need dedicated mining hardware to start Bitcoin mining and see any reasonable success. ❓ What is Hash Rate? A hash rate is a unit of measure that assesses the processing power of the Bitcoin network. For instance, when your network reaches a hash rate of 5 TH/s, it would be able to make 5 trillion calculations per second. We do not recommend the following services Miningrigrentals Genesis Mining IQ Mining You Might Like: Blockchain Testing Tutorial 10 BEST Monero Wallets to Store XMR Coin (Jul 2022 Update) 5 BEST Cold Wallet for Crypto Storage (Jul 2022 Update) 7 BEST Crypto Staking Platforms (Jul 2022) Coinbase vs. Coinbase Pro: Must-Know Differences Post navigation Report a Bug Previous Prev Next Continue Best Crypto Wallets Best Cryptocurrency Wallet Best Ripple Wallet Best Ethereum Wallet Best Cardano Wallet Best Anonymous Wallet Best Monero Wallet Best Dogecoin Wallet Best Cold Wallet Best Crypto Wallet India Must Know! Crypto Debit/Credit Card Crypto Portfolio Manager How to get Bitcoins Crypto Futures Trading How to cash out Bitcoin Best Crypto Buy Litecoin Buy Anonymously Buy Tron Coin Buy Dogecoin Buy Bitcoin Buy Bitcoin with Cash Buy Bitcoin with PayPal Buy Shiba Inu Coin How to Mine Crypto How to Mine Bitcoin How to Mine Ethereum How to Mine Dogecoin How to Mine Monero How to Mine Electroneum Best Crypto Software & Tools Best Crypto Exchanges Best Bitcoin Mining Best Cloud Mining Sites Best Crypto Trading Bots Best Ethereum Mining BEST Ethereum Cloud Mining Best Litecoin Mining Best NFT Marketplace Best Crypto Tax Best NFT to Buy BEST Crypto Staking Best Coinbase Alternatives Best Mining Pools Best Crypto Banks Best Cryptocurrency to Buy Best Copy Trading About About Us Advertise with Us Write For Us Contact Us © Copyright - Guru99 2022 Privacy Policy | Affiliate Disclaimer | ToS Scroll to top TutorialExpand child menu Expand Software Testing Selenium SAP Python Java Linux SQL Big Data Ethical Hacking VPNs Best Crypto WalletsExpand child menu Expand Best Cryptocurrency Wallet Best Ripple Wallet Best Ethereum Wallet Best Cardano Wallet Best Anonymous Wallet Best Monero Wallet Best Dogecoin Wallet Best Cold Wallet Best Crypto Wallet India BEST Bitcoin Wallets Apps Best Crypto SoftwareExpand child menu Expand Best Crypto Exchanges Best Bitcoin Mining Best Cloud Mining Sites Best Crypto Trading Bots Best Ethereum Mining BEST Ethereum Cloud Mining Best Litecoin Mining Best NFT Marketplace Best Crypto Tax Best NFT to Buy BEST Crypto Staking Best Coinbase Alternatives Best Mining Pools Best Crypto Banks Best Cryptocurrency to Buy Best Copy Trading Buy CryptoExpand child menu Expand Buy Litecoin Buy Anonymously Buy Tron Coin Buy Dogecoin Buy Bitcoin Buy Bitcoin with Cash Buy Bitcoin with PayPal Buy Shiba Inu Coin How to Mine CryptoExpand child menu Expand How to Mine Bitcoin How to Mine Ethereum How to Mine Dogecoin How to Mine Monero How to Mine Electroneum Toggle Menu Close Search for: Searchhttps://www.guru99.com/best-cloud-mining-sites-trusted.html 7 BEST Cloud Mining Sites (Bitcoin, Ethereum Mining) Skip to content Tutorial Expand Software Testing Selenium SAP Python Java Linux SQL Big Data Ethical Hacking VPNs Best Crypto Wallets Expand Best Cryptocurrency Wallet Best Ripple Wallet Best Ethereum Wallet Best Cardano Wallet Best Anonymous Wallet Best Monero Wallet Best Dogecoin Wallet Best Cold Wallet Best Crypto Wallet India BEST Bitcoin Wallets Apps Best Crypto Software Expand Best Crypto Exchanges Best Bitcoin Mining Best Cloud Mining Sites Best Crypto Trading Bots Best Ethereum Mining BEST Ethereum Cloud Mining Best Litecoin Mining Best NFT Marketplace Best Crypto Tax Best NFT to Buy BEST Crypto Staking Best Coinbase Alternatives Best Mining Pools Best Crypto Banks Best Cryptocurrency to Buy Best Copy Trading Buy Crypto Expand Buy Litecoin Buy Anonymously Buy Tron Coin Buy Dogecoin Buy Bitcoin Buy Bitcoin with Cash Buy Bitcoin with PayPal Buy Shiba Inu Coin How to Mine Crypto Expand How to Mine Bitcoin How to Mine Ethereum How to Mine Dogecoin How to Mine Monero How to Mine Electroneum Search Toggle Menu 7 BEST Cloud Mining Sites (Bitcoin, Ethereum Mining) ByBarbara Thompson Hours UpdatedJuly 25, 2022 Cloud Mining is the process of cryptocurrency mining that utilizes a remote data center with shared processing power. Mining cryptocurrencies via the cloud is an ideal way to use the power of specialized mining equipment without having to own or maintain the hardware yourself. This approach can help you save time and money while still reaping mining rewards. Many Cloud Mining Services are frauds and scam end users. Selecting a legit service that pays you consistently is a challenge. Following is a thoroughly researched list of the Top Cloud Mining sites with their features, pros, cons, key specifications, and website links. Read more… Top Cloud Crypto Mining Websites (Trusted & Legit): Free/Paid Name Founding Year Supported Coins Fraud risk Link 👍 StormGain 2019 Bitcoin, Bitcoin Cash, Ethereum, Litecoin, etc. Low Learn More 👍 ECOS 2017 Bitcoin, Ethereum, Ripple, Bitcoin Cash, Tether, Litecoin. Low Learn More Hashing24 2015 ZCash, Dash, Ethereum (ETH), Litecoin (LTC), Bitcoin (BTC) Low Learn More BeMine 2018 Bitcoin, Ethereum, Zcash. Low Learn More Scryptcube 2016 Bitcoin and Ethereum. Medium Learn More 1) StormGain Best for Experts and beginners. StormGain is an innovative Bitcoin mining software that allows you to invest in digital currency effortlessly. It features a user-friendly dashboard that helps you monitor assets rising and falling. This application also has powerful charting tools to track trends and price movements. #1 Top Pick StormGain Founding Year: 2019 Supported coins: Bitcoin, Bitcoin Cash, Ethereum, Litecoin, etc. Payout Frequency: Daily Fraud risk: Low Learn More Features: It protects your cryptocurrency by keeping it in a secure wallet. You have the option to choose the payment that best suits your needs. StormGain is available in a variety of languages, including English, French, Spanish, and Italian. You can mine digital currency without expensive equipment. It has an easy sign-up process. Up to 12% interest rates on your funds. 👍 Pros 👎 Cons User-friendly interface. The system needs to be properly regulated. It supports a range of cryptocurrency trading. There is no in-built bot to automate trading. Gives up to 20% Bonus on every deposit. It is supported by 230+ countries. Key Specs: Found year: 2019 Supported coins: Bitcoin, Bitcoin Cash, Ethereum, Litecoin, etc. Minimum Investment: $100 Minimum Payouts: 50 USD Payout Frequency: Daily Price: No maintenance fees, only trading commission Fraud risk: Low More Information >> 2) ECOS Best for Its operating system, which works with legal status. ECOS is the most trusted cloud mining provider in the industry. It was established in 2017 in the Free Economic Zone. It is the first cloud mining service provider that is operating with legal status. ECOS has more than 100,000+ users from all over the world. It is first cryptocurrency investment platform with a complete suite of digital asset products and tools. #2 ECOS Founding Year: 2017 Supported coins: Bitcoin, Ethereum, Ripple, Bitcoin Cash, Tether, Litecoin. Payout Frequency: Daily Fraud risk: Low Learn More Features: Convenient calculator on the website for choosing a mining contract Daily payments and detailed transaction history ECOS is more than just a cloud mining platform – it also offers a wallet, exchange, investment portfolios, and savings feature. You can download the ECOS mobile app from either the App Store or Google Play. It is a convenient way to access your account and perform various tasks. Use Coupon code “GURU” and get a free cloud mining contract for 1 month. 👍 Pros 👎 Cons It provides payments on a daily basis. Only BTC mining The low minimum withdrawal from 0.001 BTC. Offers a wide range of cloud mining contracts Key Specs: Found year: 2017 Supported coins: Bitcoin, Ethereum, Ripple, Bitcoin Cash, Tether, Litecoin. Minimum Investment: $150 Minimum Payouts: 0.001 BTC. Payout Frequency: Daily Price: Plan starting at $0.75 TH/S per month. Fraud risk: Low More Information >> 3) Hashing24 Best for Individuals who wish to access Bitcoin mining. Hashing24 is one of the most accessible cloud mining providers for individuals interested in Bitcoin mining technology. This user-friendly Bitcoin cloud mining software comes with 24/7 customer support. This software allows you to mine cryptocurrency without purchasing any equipment. It provides access to data centers in the real world. It can automatically deposit your mined coins into your balance. #3 Hashing24 Founding Year: 2015 Supported coins: ZCash, Dash, Ethereum (ETH), Litecoin (LTC), Bitcoin (BTC) Payout Frequency: Once per day Fraud risk: Low Learn More Features: The website provides a convenient calculator to help you choose the best mining contract. Hashing 24 offers daily payments. This cloud mining site offers weekly promotions and auctions for registered users. Provides 100% uptime guarantee Get a free mining contract for 1 month after registration. 👍 Pros 👎 Cons A very less daily service charge of 0.033 USD or 0.00014 USD. The only cryptocurrency you can mine is Bitcoin. Good technical support is offered on a 24/7 basis. It has good earning potential. You can earn 0.000006 BTC or 0.04USD per day. Key Specs: Found year: 2015 Supported coins: ZCash, Dash, Ethereum (ETH), Litecoin (LTC), Bitcoin (BTC), Minimum Investment: 0.0001 BTC Minimum Payouts: 0.0007 BTC. Payout Frequency: Once per day Price: 1) 12- Month plan: $72.30/ 1TH/s, 2) 18- Month plan: $108.40/ 1TH/s, 3) 24-Month plan: $144.60/ 1TH/s Fraud risk: Low More Information >> 4) BeMine Best for Cloud sharing of ASIC-miners BeMine has been providing top-quality mining equipment storage services to customers worldwide since 2018. Their partnered data centers allow customers to store their equipment without the need for personal presence during purchase, transportation, installation, configuration, and maintenance. You can always buy new machines or withdraw your coins. With your personal account, you can buy miners and contracts instantly! #4 BeMine Founding Year: 2018 Supported coins: Bitcoin, Ethereum, Zcash. Payout Frequency: Daily Fraud risk: Low Learn More Features: Provides options to buy the miner and cloud contracts The ability to buy ASIC miners over time and deliver them to your door. They have many hotels partnered with them worldwide. Allows you to buy equipment as per your need, whole or in parts. 👍 Pros 👎 Cons Offers 3 days of free cloud mining trial. It does not support iOS. It has two levels of the referral program. It has a mobile app for Android users. Offers 7% on referral purchases. Key Specs: Found year: 2018 Supported coins: Bitcoin, Ethereum, Zcash. Minimum Investment: $99 Minimum Payouts: 0.005 BTC. Payout Frequency: Daily Price: 1) Antminer T17+ Plan with 64 TH/s starts at $99 2) Antminer T19 Plan with 84 TH/s starts at $182 3) Antminer S19 Plan with 110 TH/s starts at $172 Fraud risk: Low More Information >> 5) Scryptcube Best for Its minimum investment rate. Scryptcube is a great cloud mining site that allows you to participate in mining popular cryptocurrencies without any of the time-consuming and complicated processes! You will be regularly receiving the mined coins into your account. #5 ScryptCube Founding Year: 2016 Supported coins: Bitcoin and Ethereum. Payout Frequency: Daily Fraud risk: Medium Learn More Features: You can purchase packages using BTC, Visa, or MasterCard. You can check them out in real time on the account. Allows you to withdraw your earnings from the very first day of mining. Receive the mined coins into your account regularly. Get instant real-time stats on mining activity. 👍 Pros 👎 Cons ScryptCube offers accruals daily. Their mining calculator needs improvement. Packages can be bought via BTC, Visa, and MasterCard methods. They keep your profits with them and return you only the amount you have invested It has an intuitive dashboard. You get instant real-time stats on mining activity. Key Specs: Found year: 2016 Supported coins: Bitcoin and Ethereum. Minimum Investment: $1.90 Minimum Payouts: Bitcoin: 0.0001 BTC + transaction fee, Ethereum: 0.001 ETH Payout Frequency: Daily Price: 1) The bitcoin mining plan starts for 1 year at $185 per 1TH/s. 2) Ethereum mining plan starts for 1 year at $49 per 1 MH/s Fraud risk: Medium More Information >> 6) Awesome Miner Best for Maximizing profit and minimizing downtime Awesome Miner is a cloud mining service that offers a comprehensive monitoring dashboard for all your ASIC and FPGA devices from one convenient location. It helps you keep tabs on device status and temperature to optimize performance and avoid costly downtime. This mining site also provides a web-based interface for monitoring your GPU’s properties, including clock speed, fan speed, temperature, and hashing power. #6 Awesome Miner Founding Year: 2014 Supported coins: Bitcoin, Litecoin, Ethereum, etc. Payout Frequency: Daily Fraud risk: Low Learn More Features: It allows you to maximize profit and minimize downtime. It is feature-rich and flexible to serve high-demanding operations. The Profit Switching feature will ensure you are mining the most profitable coin at any given time You can set up mining pools with just one mouse click. It gives 15% higher performance for Antminer S19 and 40% for Antminer S17 You can get started with this mining contract in no time! 👍 Pros 👎 Cons It offers a free trial. Not for novice users It can work with all ASIC, GPU, and CPU devices. More than 50 mining software programs are supported. Offers a free Demo. Customized triggers and actions Key Specs: Found year: 2014 Supported coins: Bitcoin, Litecoin, Ethereum, etc. Minimum Investment: 50 USD Minimum Payouts: Depends on Bitcoin price, hash rate, and mining difficulty Payout Frequency: Daily Free Trial: Yes- with 2 miners and limited features. Price: Plan to start at $4 for 2 miners per month. Fraud risk: Low More Information >> 7) BitDeer Best For Providing direct deposit from top mining pools BitDeer is a highly trusted sharing service platform for digital asset mining machines. It is one of the best cloud mining sites that enables users to rent out their unused computing power and earn cryptocurrency. It also provides support for multiple fiat currencies. #7 Bitdeer Founding Year: 2018 Supported coins: Bitcoin, Bitcoin Cash, Litecoin, Ethereum, Dash, etc. Payout Frequency: Daily Fraud risk: Low Learn More Features: It offers customized mining solutions for professional investors. Bitdeer provides real-time analytics and also supports a smart sharing feature. Daily outputs of over 100BTC a day It provides users with information about changes in its supported pool services. It offers mobile apps for Android and iOS platforms. 👍 Pros 👎 Cons It provides regular updates on social networks Customer support is slow. It offers payout in Cryptocurrency and Cash. For beginners, the best packages are a bit too expensive. It provides an option for automatic reinvestment. Key Specs: Found Year: 2018 Supported coins: Bitcoin, Bitcoin Cash, Litecoin, Ethereum, Dash, Z Cash, etc. Minimum Payouts: 0.002 BTC Payout Frequency: Daily Price: 1) Antminer S19Pro Plan with 50 TH/s starts at $542 2) Antminer S19Pro Plan with 100 TH/s starts at $1084 3) Antminer S19Pro Plan with 200 TH/s starts at $2168 Plan. Fraud risk: Low More Information >> FAQ: ❓ What is Cloud Mining? How does it work? The process of cloud mining allows users to mine cryptocurrencies remotely using shared processing power. It is done by using a remote data center. This kind of mining helps users mine Bitcoins or other cryptocurrencies without managing the hardware. The mining rigs are housed in a facility owned by the mining company. The customer needs to register for mining contracts. Cloud mining is a process of bringing new Bitcoins into circulation. With cloud mining, you can earn money without investing. However, you need an Application-Specific Integrated Circuit (ASIC) or GPU to set up a mining rig. A miner’s goal is a cloud mining network to add individual blocks to the Blockchain by solving complex mathematical problems which require a great deal of computational and electrical power. While many miners compete to add each block, the miner who solves the problem will add the block along with its approved transactions to the Blockchain. This miner receives the reward in the account. Learn more about what is Cloud Mining? If you are interested. ⚡ What are the Best Cloud Mining websites? Following are some of the best Bitcoin Mining Pools/Cloud Mining websites: StormGain– Best for Experts and beginners. ECOS -Best for Its operating system, which works with legal status. Hashing24 – Individuals who wish to access Bitcoin mining. BeMine – Best for Cloud sharing of ASIC-miners. Scryptcube – Its minimum investment rate. Awesome Miner – Maximizing profit and minimizing downtime BitDeer – Providing direct deposit from top mining pools Also, Check: Best Bitcoin Mining Pools 🏅 What are the advantages of Cloud Mining? Here are some pros important pros of Cloud Mining: Ease of investment. You do not require to purchase any hardware equipment. You do not need any technical knowledge. You do not have to bear any operating costs. You can start right away. It offers flexibility and reliability Provides a fast return on investments. 🚀 What are the disadvantages of Cloud Mining? Here are the drawbacks/ cons of Cloud Mining: Some cloud mining services might commit fraud. You have no control over cloud mining. 🔒 Is Cloud Mining safe? There is no guarantee as to when you will find mining gear that is under your control. Therefore, it is best to invest in only those trusted mining sites. 👉 Is Cloud Mining a scam or legit? Yes, it is legit and not a scam. Cloud mining can be a great way to invest in cryptocurrency, but it’s essential to do your research and choose a reputable company. Make sure you also understand the laws and regulations in your country. 💲 How do you make money by Mining Bitcoin? You can earn money mining Bitcoin by finishing blocks of verified transactions added to the Blockchain. You will get a small portion of Bitcoin as a reward in exchange for mining. Nowadays, overall hash rates are very high, so it is not easy to profit from mining Bitcoin for an individual. ❗ Which Countries Mine the most Bitcoins? Here are countries that mine the most Bitcoins: China: This country mines approximately 60% of all new Bitcoins. Georgia: It mines about 15% of all Bitcoins. US: This country mines about 3% of all Bitcoins. Other countries: These countries mine the rest of the Bitcoins. 💥 Why are Miners Important? The digital process of mining for Bitcoins involves adding transaction records to the Blockchain. This record-keeping process requires a great deal of computing power. Each Bitcoin miner contributes to a decentralized P2P (Peer-to-Peer) network to ensure the payment network remains secure and trustworthy. The Blockchain network is a P2P network that is decentralized and has a shared ledger. There is no central authority in charge of the network, so miners record, process, and validate transactions. The data sent across the network is easily accessible, but personal Information is always kept confidential. Here, miners validate blocks of transactions to access their blocked rewards. The new cryptocurrency is introduced to the network whenever a new transaction block is added to the system. Not only do miners work to secure the network, but they also verify transactions. For the Blockchain network to operate properly, miners need to be constantly active on the network. 🏅 How to convert Bitcoin to Cash? You can convert your Bitcoins into cash by using the below methods: Using cryptocurrency exchanges Sell Bitcoins using LocalBitcoins. Use Bitcoin ATMs Spend your Bitcoins using Bitcoin Debit cards ⚡ How to mine Bitcoin at home? You can mine Bitcoin at home, but you will need to invest in the proper hardware. Bitcoin mining is a complex process, so you’ll need to ensure your hardware is up to the task. Electricity consumption is also something to keep in mind when mining Bitcoin at home. The success rate will be very low. Cryptocurrency is so popular nowadays that even a kindergarten kid can mine Bitcoins using home electricity. You need dedicated mining hardware to start Bitcoin mining and see any reasonable success. ❓ What is Hash Rate? A hash rate is a unit of measure that assesses the processing power of the Bitcoin network. For instance, when your network reaches a hash rate of 5 TH/s, it would be able to make 5 trillion calculations per second. We do not recommend the following services Miningrigrentals Genesis Mining IQ Mining You Might Like: Blockchain Testing Tutorial 10 BEST Monero Wallets to Store XMR Coin (Jul 2022 Update) 5 BEST Cold Wallet for Crypto Storage (Jul 2022 Update) 7 BEST Crypto Staking Platforms (Jul 2022) Coinbase vs. Coinbase Pro: Must-Know Differences Post navigation Report a Bug Previous Prev Next Continue Best Crypto Wallets Best Cryptocurrency Wallet Best Ripple Wallet Best Ethereum Wallet Best Cardano Wallet Best Anonymous Wallet Best Monero Wallet Best Dogecoin Wallet Best Cold Wallet Best Crypto Wallet India Must Know! Crypto Debit/Credit Card Crypto Portfolio Manager How to get Bitcoins Crypto Futures Trading How to cash out Bitcoin Best Crypto Buy Litecoin Buy Anonymously Buy Tron Coin Buy Dogecoin Buy Bitcoin Buy Bitcoin with Cash Buy Bitcoin with PayPal Buy Shiba Inu Coin How to Mine Crypto How to Mine Bitcoin How to Mine Ethereum How to Mine Dogecoin How to Mine Monero How to Mine Electroneum Best Crypto Software & Tools Best Crypto Exchanges Best Bitcoin Mining Best Cloud Mining Sites Best Crypto Trading Bots Best Ethereum Mining BEST Ethereum Cloud Mining Best Litecoin Mining Best NFT Marketplace Best Crypto Tax Best NFT to Buy BEST Crypto Staking Best Coinbase Alternatives Best Mining Pools Best Crypto Banks Best Cryptocurrency to Buy Best Copy Trading About About Us Advertise with Us Write For Us Contact Us © Copyright - Guru99 2022 Privacy Policy | Affiliate Disclaimer | ToS Scroll to top TutorialExpand child menu Expand Software Testing Selenium SAP Python Java Linux SQL Big Data Ethical Hacking VPNs Best Crypto WalletsExpand child menu Expand Best Cryptocurrency Wallet Best Ripple Wallet Best Ethereum Wallet Best Cardano Wallet Best Anonymous Wallet Best Monero Wallet Best Dogecoin Wallet Best Cold Wallet Best Crypto Wallet India BEST Bitcoin Wallets Apps Best Crypto SoftwareExpand child menu Expand Best Crypto Exchanges Best Bitcoin Mining Best Cloud Mining Sites Best Crypto Trading Bots Best Ethereum Mining BEST Ethereum Cloud Mining Best Litecoin Mining Best NFT Marketplace Best Crypto Tax Best NFT to Buy BEST Crypto Staking Best Coinbase Alternatives Best Mining Pools Best Crypto Banks Best Cryptocurrency to Buy Best Copy Trading Buy CryptoExpand child menu Expand Buy Litecoin Buy Anonymously Buy Tron Coin Buy Dogecoin Buy Bitcoin Buy Bitcoin with Cash Buy Bitcoin with PayPal Buy Shiba Inu Coin How to Mine CryptoExpand child menu Expand How to Mine Bitcoin How to Mine Ethereum How to Mine Dogecoin How to Mine Monero How to Mine Electroneum Toggle Menu Close Search for: Search