https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/a-freshers-guide-to-programming/ A Freshers Guide To Programming - GeeksforGeeks Skip to content Courses For Working Professionals LIVE DSA Live Classes System Design Java Backend Development Full Stack LIVE Explore More Self-Paced DSA- Self Paced SDE Theory All Development Courses Explore More For Students LIVE Competitive Programming GATE Live Course 2023 Data Science Explore More Self-Paced DSA- Self Paced CIP JAVA / Python / C++ Explore More School Courses School Guide Python Programming Learn To Make Apps Explore more All Courses Tutorials Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Asymptotic Analysis Worst, Average and Best Cases Asymptotic Notations Little o and little omega notations Lower and Upper Bound Theory Analysis of Loops Solving Recurrences Amortized Analysis What does 'Space Complexity' mean ? Pseudo-polynomial Algorithms Polynomial Time Approximation Scheme A Time Complexity Question Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Bitwise Algorithms Randomized Algorithms Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch and Bound All Algorithms Data Structures Arrays Linked List Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings All Data Structures Interview Corner Company Preparation Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competititve Programming Design Patterns System Design Tutorial Multiple Choice Quizzes Languages C C++ Java Python C# JavaScript jQuery SQL PHP Scala Perl Go Language HTML CSS Kotlin ML & Data Science Machine Learning Data Science CS Subjects Mathematics Operating System DBMS Computer Networks Computer Organization and Architecture Theory of Computation Compiler Design Digital Logic Software Engineering GATE GATE Computer Science Notes Last Minute Notes GATE CS Solved Papers GATE CS Original Papers and Official Keys GATE 2021 Dates GATE CS 2021 Syllabus Important Topics for GATE CS Web Technologies HTML CSS JavaScript AngularJS ReactJS NodeJS Bootstrap jQuery PHP Software Designs Software Design Patterns System Design Tutorial School Learning School Programming Mathematics Number System Algebra Trigonometry Statistics Probability Geometry Mensuration Calculus Maths Notes (Class 8-12) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes Class 12 Notes NCERT Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution RD Sharma Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution Physics Notes (Class 8-11) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes Chemistry Notes Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes CS Exams/PSUs ISRO ISRO CS Original Papers and Official Keys ISRO CS Solved Papers ISRO CS Syllabus for Scientist/Engineer Exam UGC NET UGC NET CS Notes Paper II UGC NET CS Notes Paper III UGC NET CS Solved Papers Student Campus Ambassador Program School Ambassador Program Project Geek of the Month Campus Geek of the Month Placement Course Competititve Programming Testimonials Student Chapter Geek on the Top Internship Careers Jobs Apply for Jobs Post a Job Hire with Us Know about Jobathon Jobathon Practice All DSA Problems Problem of the Day Interview Series: Weekly Contests Bi-Wizard Coding: School Contests Contests and Events Practice SDE Sheet Curated DSA Lists Top 50 Array Problems Top 50 String Problems Top 50 Tree Problems Top 50 Graph Problems Top 50 DP Problems Write Come write articles for us and get featured Practice Learn and code with the best industry experts Premium Get access to ad-free content, doubt assistance and more! Jobs Come and find your dream job with us Geeks Digest Quizzes Geeks Campus Gblog Articles IDE Campus Mantri Home Saved Videos Courses GBlog Puzzles What's New ? Change Language Data Structures Algorithms Interview Preparation Topic-wise Practice C++ Java Python Competitive Programming Machine Learning HTML SDE Sheet Puzzles GFG School Projects Related Articles ▲ Related Articles Must Do Coding Questions for Companies like Amazon, Microsoft, Adobe, ... Practice for cracking any coding interview Must Do Coding Questions for Product Based Companies Must Do Coding Questions Company-wise Top 10 Projects For Beginners To Practice HTML and CSS Skills Types of Software Testing Top 10 Algorithms and Data Structures for Competitive Programming Fast I/O for Competitive Programming Web 1.0, Web 2.0 and Web 3.0 with their difference Frontend vs Backend DSA Sheet by Love Babbar 100 Days of Code - A Complete Guide For Beginners and Experienced Top 10 System Design Interview Questions and Answers Different Ways to Connect One Computer to Another Computer Top Linux Distros to Consider in 2021 Genetic Algorithms Data Structures and Algorithms Online Courses : Free and Paid How to begin with Competitive Programming? Top Programming Languages for Android App Development Top 10 Programming Languages That Will Rule in 2021 7 Best Coding Challenge Websites in 2020 Ethical Issues in Information Technology (IT) What is web socket and how it is different from the HTTP? Top 10 Kali Linux Tools For Hacking Top 5 IDEs for C++ That You Should Try Once What is Competitive Programming and How to Prepare for It? GeeksforGeeks School How to overcome Time Limit Exceed(TLE)? How to Prepare for Amazon Software Development Engineering Interview? Top 10 Frameworks for Web Applications Must Do Coding Questions for Companies like Amazon, Microsoft, Adobe, ... Practice for cracking any coding interview Must Do Coding Questions for Product Based Companies Must Do Coding Questions Company-wise Top 10 Projects For Beginners To Practice HTML and CSS Skills Types of Software Testing Top 10 Algorithms and Data Structures for Competitive Programming Fast I/O for Competitive Programming Web 1.0, Web 2.0 and Web 3.0 with their difference Frontend vs Backend DSA Sheet by Love Babbar 100 Days of Code - A Complete Guide For Beginners and Experienced Top 10 System Design Interview Questions and Answers Different Ways to Connect One Computer to Another Computer Top Linux Distros to Consider in 2021 Genetic Algorithms Data Structures and Algorithms Online Courses : Free and Paid How to begin with Competitive Programming? Top Programming Languages for Android App Development Top 10 Programming Languages That Will Rule in 2021 7 Best Coding Challenge Websites in 2020 Ethical Issues in Information Technology (IT) What is web socket and how it is different from the HTTP? Top 10 Kali Linux Tools For Hacking Top 5 IDEs for C++ That You Should Try Once What is Competitive Programming and How to Prepare for It? GeeksforGeeks School How to overcome Time Limit Exceed(TLE)? How to Prepare for Amazon Software Development Engineering Interview? Top 10 Frameworks for Web Applications A Freshers Guide To Programming View Discussion Improve Article Save Article Like Article Difficulty Level : Easy Last Updated : 03 Jun, 2022 Since the boom of the IT sector, computer science has become the key to the door of future evergrowing careers. Everyone knows it (You’re seriously living under a rock if you aren’t aware of this yet). With software so rooted in the functionality of society, it is one of the most desirable skills in the present scenario. Being able to invent and innovate is not what everybody can do. If you’re a fresher who is fascinated by computers, mobile applications, websites, etc. and is eager to learn different programming languages, keep reading on. To develop critical thinking and learn how to code, GeeksforGeeks brings you various self-paced foundation courses that will help you learn the very basics as well as refine your skills as a beginner. All the courses are designed and curated to help you build a strong foundation. Our CEO Mr. Sandeep Jain has joined hands with other industry experts who have years of experience in the real world and they created these courses in such a way that you can learn these courses without seeking external help and that too at your own pace while maintaining a flexible schedule. Let’s take a dive into the details of the courses offered by GeeksforGeeks: 1. JAVA Programming Foundation – Self Paced One of the most popular programming languages, JAVA is known for its compatibility and versatility. It is fast, reliable, and secure, which makes it popular and most used by developers. In our “JAVA Programming Foundation (Self Paced)” course, we offer the basics of JAVA, data types of JAVA programming language, operators and flow control, loops, strings & more. With the best resources for learning JAVA concepts and questions to excel in your understanding, give yourself the right start by enrolling in this course at an affordable rate. 2. Python Programming Foundation – Self Paced Every programming student knows the hype of Python. It makes the web development process smooth as butter. From data science, and machine learning to designing games, Python is used in every field which makes it the most in-demand language, and also a good reason for you to start learning the basics of it from scratch. Our “Python Programming Foundation (Self Paced)” course offers you in-depth knowledge of Functions, Loops, Strings, and Lists, and how to solve coding problems efficiently. 3. C Programming (Basic to Advanced) – Self Paced The most prominent language in the computer world is the C Programming language. It’s known as the mother of programming language and is widely used in the world of computer science. You can learn this language in no time and if you want to advance in other programming languages, you need to learn the foundational programming language first. For any coder, developing problem-solving skills is a must. Every course comes with numerous coding problems to hardware the concepts into you. If you’re a CS fresher and wandering about where to start, don’t think and dive into this course which will open the gate to other advanced programming courses for you. If you’re confused about your programming career or which language to choose, these foundation courses can help you bring career clarity. My Personal Notes arrow_drop_up Save Like Previous 10 Best Java Books For Beginners and Advanced Programmers in 2022 Next Top Programming Languages For iOS App Development Recommended Articles Page : Why Internships are Important for Engineering Students or Freshers? 20, Aug 19 NIELIT Scientist B and Scientific Assistant-'A' Recruitment 2020 - For Freshers! 13, Jan 21 7 Most In-Demand Digital Marketing Job Roles For Freshers 16, Mar 21 Top 10 Job Interview Tips For Freshers 31, Jan 22 DSA Internship Hiring Challenge For Freshers By GeeksforGeeks 08, Jun 22 Top Programming Languages For Competitive Programming 10, Jul 22 How to prepare for Infosys - The Complete guide 05, Dec 16 A Complete Guide to Learn Kotlin For Android App Development 07, Jul 21 Step Wise Guide to start with Open Source 07, Mar 19 How to Become a Full Stack Web Developer in 2019 : A Complete Guide 02, Jun 19 How to Become a Data Analyst in 2019: A Complete Guide 30, Sep 19 How to Become a Data Scientist in 2019: A Complete Guide 08, Oct 19 Google Interview Preparation For Software Engineer - A Complete Guide 21, Oct 19 Switch Your Career to Machine Learning - A Complete Guide 17, Nov 19 How to Write a Research Paper - A Complete Guide 28, Jan 20 How to Start a Career in Software Testing - A Complete Guide! 10, Jul 20 How to Learn Java Collections - A Complete Guide 21, Aug 20 Wireframe in UX Design - A Beginner's Guide 05, Apr 21 Your No-Nonsense Guide From An Organised Coder - Anuj Kumar Sharma 16, Nov 20 Learn Java For Android App Development - A Complete Guide 26, Jun 21 A Complete Guide to Learn Android Studio For App Development 07, Aug 21 Top 9 Technologies Transforming the Future of Web Development- Comprehensive Guide 20, Jun 21 Axios in React: A Guide for Beginners 10, Nov 21 How To Learn ReactJS: A Complete Guide For Beginners 09, Mar 20 Article Contributed By : GeeksforGeeks Vote for difficulty Current difficulty : Easy Easy Normal Medium Hard Expert Improved By : shaheeneallamaiqbal Article Tags : GFG-Update GBlog Report Issue Writing code in comment? Please use ide.geeksforgeeks.org, generate link and share the link here. Load Comments What's New Practice Problems, POTD Streak, Weekly Contests & More! View Details Data Structures & Algorithms- Self Paced Course View Details Complete Interview Preparation- Self Paced Course View Details Improve your Coding Skills with PracticeTry It! A-143, 9th Floor, Sovereign Corporate Tower, Sector-136, Noida, Uttar Pradesh - 201305 feedback@geeksforgeeks.org Company About Us Careers In Media Contact Us Privacy Policy Copyright Policy Learn Algorithms Data Structures SDE Cheat Sheet Machine learning CS Subjects Video Tutorials Courses News Top News Technology Work & Career Business Finance Lifestyle Knowledge Languages Python Java CPP Golang C# SQL Kotlin Web Development Web Tutorials Django Tutorial HTML JavaScript Bootstrap ReactJS NodeJS Contribute Write an Article Improve an Article Pick Topics to Write Write Interview Experience Internships Video Internship @geeksforgeeks , Some rights reserved We use cookies to ensure you have the best browsing experience on our website. By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understood our Cookie Policy & Privacy Policy Got It ! Start Your Coding Journey Now! Login Register