https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/category/data-structures/c-arrays/ Arrays Archives - GeeksforGeeks Skip to content Courses For Working Professionals LIVE DSA Live Classes System Design Java Backend Development Full Stack LIVE Explore More Self-Paced DSA- Self Paced SDE Theory All Development Courses Explore More For Students LIVE Competitive Programming GATE Live Course 2023 Data Science Explore More Self-Paced DSA- Self Paced CIP JAVA / Python / C++ Explore More School Courses School Guide Python Programming Learn To Make Apps Explore more All Courses Tutorials Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Asymptotic Analysis Worst, Average and Best Cases Asymptotic Notations Little o and little omega notations Lower and Upper Bound Theory Analysis of Loops Solving Recurrences Amortized Analysis What does 'Space Complexity' mean ? Pseudo-polynomial Algorithms Polynomial Time Approximation Scheme A Time Complexity Question Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Bitwise Algorithms Randomized Algorithms Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch and Bound All Algorithms Data Structures Arrays Linked List Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings All Data Structures Interview Corner Company Preparation Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competititve Programming Design Patterns System Design Tutorial Multiple Choice Quizzes Languages C C++ Java Python C# JavaScript jQuery SQL PHP Scala Perl Go Language HTML CSS Kotlin ML & Data Science Machine Learning Data Science CS Subjects Mathematics Operating System DBMS Computer Networks Computer Organization and Architecture Theory of Computation Compiler Design Digital Logic Software Engineering GATE GATE Computer Science Notes Last Minute Notes GATE CS Solved Papers GATE CS Original Papers and Official Keys GATE 2021 Dates GATE CS 2021 Syllabus Important Topics for GATE CS Web Technologies HTML CSS JavaScript AngularJS ReactJS NodeJS Bootstrap jQuery PHP Software Designs Software Design Patterns System Design Tutorial School Learning School Programming Mathematics Number System Algebra Trigonometry Statistics Probability Geometry Mensuration Calculus Maths Notes (Class 8-12) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes Class 12 Notes NCERT Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution RD Sharma Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution Physics Notes (Class 8-11) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes Chemistry Notes Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes CS Exams/PSUs ISRO ISRO CS Original Papers and Official Keys ISRO CS Solved Papers ISRO CS Syllabus for Scientist/Engineer Exam UGC NET UGC NET CS Notes Paper II UGC NET CS Notes Paper III UGC NET CS Solved Papers Student Campus Ambassador Program School Ambassador Program Project Geek of the Month Campus Geek of the Month Placement Course Competititve Programming Testimonials Student Chapter Geek on the Top Internship Careers Jobs Apply for Jobs Post a Job Hire with Us Know about Jobathon Jobathon Practice All DSA Problems Problem of the Day Interview Series: Weekly Contests Bi-Wizard Coding: School Contests Contests and Events Practice SDE Sheet Curated DSA Lists Top 50 Array Problems Top 50 String Problems Top 50 Tree Problems Top 50 Graph Problems Top 50 DP Problems Write Come write articles for us and get featured Practice Learn and code with the best industry experts Premium Get access to ad-free content, doubt assistance and more! Jobs Come and find your dream job with us Geeks Digest Quizzes Geeks Campus Gblog Articles IDE Campus Mantri Home Saved Videos Courses GBlog Puzzles What's New ? Change Language Data Structures Algorithms Interview Preparation Topic-wise Practice C++ Java Python Competitive Programming Machine Learning HTML SDE Sheet Puzzles GFG School Projects ▲ Category Archives: Arrays Count minimum decrement prefix or suffix or increment all operations to make Array equal to 0 Given an array arr[] of size N. The task is to make all the array elements equal to zero by applying the minimum number of… Read More Arrays Greedy Maximum possible difference between two Subarrays after removing N elements from Array Given an array arr[] which is of 3*N size, the task is to remove N elements and divide the whole array into two equal parts… Read More Arrays loop Arrays Greedy Heap Count of Pairs with given sum in Rotated Sorted Array Given an array arr[] of distinct elements size N that is sorted and then around an unknown point, the task is to count the number… Read More Binary Search Arrays Searching Check if empty spaces of Array can be filled maintaining given relations of adjacent Given two arrays, array A[] of size N and array B[] of size N-1, array A has all the positive elements and -1 for the… Read More Arrays Greedy Count of Subsets with given Difference Given an array arr[] of size N and a given difference diff, the task is to count the number of partitions that we can perform… Read More subset Arrays Dynamic Programming Recursion Construct Array with elements in given range and distinct GCD of each element with its index Given 3 integers N, L and R. The task is to construct an array A[] of N integers, such that : Each element of the… Read More GCD-LCM Arrays Find the remaining Array element after adding values in given ranges Given an array A[] containing N elements and an array queries containing Q queries of type [ X, L, R ] where X is the… Read More array-range-queries Arrays Mathematical Minimum value to be added to maximize peak count Given an array A[] of size N. The task is to find the minimum value that should be added to the array elements to maximize… Read More prefix-sum Arrays Greedy Find Array formed by reversing Prefix each time given character is found Given an array arr[] of length N consisting of uppercase English letters only and a letter ch. the task is to find the final array… Read More prefix Reverse Arrays Pattern Searching Find winner of the Game where Array elements are reduced in each turn Given a circular array arr[] of size N containing positive integers only, Player A and B are playing a game, turn by turn, the game… Read More Arrays Game Theory Check presence of integer between min and max of Array that divide all Array elements Given an array A[] of size N, the task is to check if there exists any integer that divide all the elements of that array… Read More divisors Arrays Greedy Minimize operations to convert Array elements to 0s Given an array nums[] of length N containing non-negative integers, the task is to convert all elements from index 0 to N-2 to zero, after… Read More Arrays Greedy Mathematical Check if Triplet exist whose sum ends with digit K Given an array arr[] of size N, determine if there exist 3 distinct indices integers, such that their sum ends in digit K. Examples: Input:… Read More Arrays Greedy Count of distinct pair sum in given Array Given an array arr[] of size N, the task is to find the total number of unique pair sums possible from the array elements. Examples:… Read More cpp-unordered_set Arrays Greedy Find all words from String present after given N words Given a string S and a list lis[] of N number of words, the task is to find every possible (N+1)th word from string S… Read More Arrays Pattern Searching Strings Page 1 of 39512345...102030...»Last » What's New Data Structures & Algorithms- Self Paced Course View Details Complete Interview Preparation- Self Paced Course View Details Practice Problems, POTD Streak, Weekly Contests & More! View Details Improve your Coding Skills with PracticeTry It! A-143, 9th Floor, Sovereign Corporate Tower, Sector-136, Noida, Uttar Pradesh - 201305 feedback@geeksforgeeks.org Company About Us Careers In Media Contact Us Privacy Policy Copyright Policy Learn Algorithms Data Structures SDE Cheat Sheet Machine learning CS Subjects Video Tutorials Courses News Top News Technology Work & Career Business Finance Lifestyle Knowledge Languages Python Java CPP Golang C# SQL Kotlin Web Development Web Tutorials Django Tutorial HTML JavaScript Bootstrap ReactJS NodeJS Contribute Write an Article Improve an Article Pick Topics to Write Write Interview Experience Internships Video Internship @geeksforgeeks , Some rights reserved We use cookies to ensure you have the best browsing experience on our website. By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understood our Cookie Policy & Privacy Policy Got It ! Start Your Coding Journey Now! Login Registerhttps://www.geeksforgeeks.org/tag/arrays/ Arrays Archives - GeeksforGeeks Skip to content Courses For Working Professionals LIVE DSA Live Classes System Design Java Backend Development Full Stack LIVE Explore More Self-Paced DSA- Self Paced SDE Theory All Development Courses Explore More For Students LIVE Competitive Programming GATE Live Course 2023 Data Science Explore More Self-Paced DSA- Self Paced CIP JAVA / Python / C++ Explore More School Courses School Guide Python Programming Learn To Make Apps Explore more All Courses Tutorials Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Asymptotic Analysis Worst, Average and Best Cases Asymptotic Notations Little o and little omega notations Lower and Upper Bound Theory Analysis of Loops Solving Recurrences Amortized Analysis What does 'Space Complexity' mean ? Pseudo-polynomial Algorithms Polynomial Time Approximation Scheme A Time Complexity Question Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Bitwise Algorithms Randomized Algorithms Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch and Bound All Algorithms Data Structures Arrays Linked List Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings All Data Structures Interview Corner Company Preparation Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competititve Programming Design Patterns System Design Tutorial Multiple Choice Quizzes Languages C C++ Java Python C# JavaScript jQuery SQL PHP Scala Perl Go Language HTML CSS Kotlin ML & Data Science Machine Learning Data Science CS Subjects Mathematics Operating System DBMS Computer Networks Computer Organization and Architecture Theory of Computation Compiler Design Digital Logic Software Engineering GATE GATE Computer Science Notes Last Minute Notes GATE CS Solved Papers GATE CS Original Papers and Official Keys GATE 2021 Dates GATE CS 2021 Syllabus Important Topics for GATE CS Web Technologies HTML CSS JavaScript AngularJS ReactJS NodeJS Bootstrap jQuery PHP Software Designs Software Design Patterns System Design Tutorial School Learning School Programming Mathematics Number System Algebra Trigonometry Statistics Probability Geometry Mensuration Calculus Maths Notes (Class 8-12) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes Class 12 Notes NCERT Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution RD Sharma Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution Physics Notes (Class 8-11) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes Chemistry Notes Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes CS Exams/PSUs ISRO ISRO CS Original Papers and Official Keys ISRO CS Solved Papers ISRO CS Syllabus for Scientist/Engineer Exam UGC NET UGC NET CS Notes Paper II UGC NET CS Notes Paper III UGC NET CS Solved Papers Student Campus Ambassador Program School Ambassador Program Project Geek of the Month Campus Geek of the Month Placement Course Competititve Programming Testimonials Student Chapter Geek on the Top Internship Careers Jobs Apply for Jobs Post a Job Hire with Us Know about Jobathon Jobathon Practice All DSA Problems Problem of the Day Interview Series: Weekly Contests Bi-Wizard Coding: School Contests Contests and Events Practice SDE Sheet Curated DSA Lists Top 50 Array Problems Top 50 String Problems Top 50 Tree Problems Top 50 Graph Problems Top 50 DP Problems Write Come write articles for us and get featured Practice Learn and code with the best industry experts Premium Get access to ad-free content, doubt assistance and more! Jobs Come and find your dream job with us Geeks Digest Quizzes Geeks Campus Gblog Articles IDE Campus Mantri Home Saved Videos Courses GBlog Puzzles What's New ? Change Language Data Structures Algorithms Interview Preparation Topic-wise Practice C++ Java Python Competitive Programming Machine Learning HTML SDE Sheet Puzzles GFG School Projects ▲ Tag Archives: Arrays Maximum possible difference between two Subarrays after removing N elements from Array Given an array arr[] which is of 3*N size, the task is to remove N elements and divide the whole array into two equal parts… Read More Arrays loop Arrays Greedy Heap ES2022 JavaScript at() Method Before getting into at() method we should know about what arrays, strings and Typed array in JavaScript is and also how to access arrays Arrays:… Read More Arrays javaScript JavaScript-Methods Picked strings JavaScript Web Technologies Generate Circulant Matrix from given Array Expert Given an array A[], the task is to find the circulant matrix made by this array. A circulant matrix is a square matrix of order… Read More Arrays Java-Output Programs for numbers Arrays Greedy Matrix Minimum operations to sort Array by moving all occurrences of an element to start or end Given an array arr[] of size N where arr[i] ≤ N, the task is to find the minimum number of operations to sort the array… Read More Arrays Greedy Sorting Maximize distinct elements of Array by combining two elements or splitting an element Given an array arr[] of length N, the task is to maximize the number of distinct elements in the array by performing either of the… Read More Arrays Arrays Mathematical Find a number with least sum of bit differences from given Array Hard Given an array arr[] and an integer L which represents the number of bits to be considered in bit representation of an array element. The… Read More Arrays Maths Bit Magic Greedy Mathematical Minimize difference between maximum and minimum element by decreasing and increasing Array elements by 1 Medium Given an array arr[], consisting of N positive integers. The task is to minimize the difference between the maximum and the minimum element of the… Read More Arrays Arrays Greedy Mathematical Maximize Array sum by choosing pairs and dividing one part and multiplying other by K Given an array arr[] of size N and integer K, the task is to maximize the sum of the array by performing the following operations… Read More Arrays Arrays Greedy Sorting Minimum count of words among all the given sentences Given N lowercase sentences, the task is to find the minimum count of words among all of these sentences. Examples: Input: arr[] = { “there is… Read More Algo-Geek 2021 Arrays frequency-counting strings Algo Geek School Programming Strings Minimize steps to make all Array elements equal by cyclically shifting a segment or replacing prefix by maximum Easy Given an array arr[] consisting of N positive integers, the task is to print the minimum number of steps required to make the array such… Read More Algo-Geek 2021 Arrays logical-thinking Algo Geek Arrays Array of list in C++ with Examples Basic What is an array? An array in any programming language is a data structure that is used to store elements or data items of similar… Read More Arrays cpp-array cpp-list STL Arrays C++ Array of unordered maps in C++ with Examples What is an array? An array in any programming language is a data structure that is used to store elements or data items of similar… Read More Arrays cpp-array cpp-unordered_map STL Arrays C++ Comparison of Array and Pointers in C/C++ with Examples Medium What is Array? An array is the collection of multiple items of the same type stored in contiguous memory locations. The position of each element… Read More Arrays Pointers C++ Difference Between Convert given Binary Array to String in C++ with Examples Easy Given a binary array arr[] containing N integer elements, the task is to create a string s which contains all N elements at the same… Read More Arrays strings C++ Strings C++ Program for Block swap algorithm for array rotation Medium Write a function rotate(ar[], d, n) that rotates arr[] of size n by d elements. Rotation of the above array by 2 will make array… Read More Arrays rotation Arrays C++ C++ Programs Page 1 of 1012345...10...»Last » What's New C++ Programming Foundation- Self Paced Course View Details Data Structures & Algorithms- Self Paced Course View Details Complete Interview Preparation- Self Paced Course View Details Improve your Coding Skills with PracticeTry It! A-143, 9th Floor, Sovereign Corporate Tower, Sector-136, Noida, Uttar Pradesh - 201305 feedback@geeksforgeeks.org Company About Us Careers In Media Contact Us Privacy Policy Copyright Policy Learn Algorithms Data Structures SDE Cheat Sheet Machine learning CS Subjects Video Tutorials Courses News Top News Technology Work & Career Business Finance Lifestyle Knowledge Languages Python Java CPP Golang C# SQL Kotlin Web Development Web Tutorials Django Tutorial HTML JavaScript Bootstrap ReactJS NodeJS Contribute Write an Article Improve an Article Pick Topics to Write Write Interview Experience Internships Video Internship @geeksforgeeks , Some rights reserved We use cookies to ensure you have the best browsing experience on our website. By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understood our Cookie Policy & Privacy Policy Got It ! Start Your Coding Journey Now! Login Register