https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/tag/binary-search/ Binary Search Archives - GeeksforGeeks Skip to content Courses For Working Professionals LIVE DSA Live Classes System Design Java Backend Development Full Stack LIVE Explore More Self-Paced DSA- Self Paced SDE Theory All Development Courses Explore More For Students LIVE Competitive Programming GATE Live Course 2023 Data Science Explore More Self-Paced DSA- Self Paced CIP JAVA / Python / C++ Explore More School Courses School Guide Python Programming Learn To Make Apps Explore more All Courses Tutorials Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Asymptotic Analysis Worst, Average and Best Cases Asymptotic Notations Little o and little omega notations Lower and Upper Bound Theory Analysis of Loops Solving Recurrences Amortized Analysis What does 'Space Complexity' mean ? Pseudo-polynomial Algorithms Polynomial Time Approximation Scheme A Time Complexity Question Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Bitwise Algorithms Randomized Algorithms Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch and Bound All Algorithms Data Structures Arrays Linked List Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings All Data Structures Interview Corner Company Preparation Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competititve Programming Design Patterns System Design Tutorial Multiple Choice Quizzes Languages C C++ Java Python C# JavaScript jQuery SQL PHP Scala Perl Go Language HTML CSS Kotlin ML & Data Science Machine Learning Data Science CS Subjects Mathematics Operating System DBMS Computer Networks Computer Organization and Architecture Theory of Computation Compiler Design Digital Logic Software Engineering GATE GATE Computer Science Notes Last Minute Notes GATE CS Solved Papers GATE CS Original Papers and Official Keys GATE 2021 Dates GATE CS 2021 Syllabus Important Topics for GATE CS Web Technologies HTML CSS JavaScript AngularJS ReactJS NodeJS Bootstrap jQuery PHP Software Designs Software Design Patterns System Design Tutorial School Learning School Programming Mathematics Number System Algebra Trigonometry Statistics Probability Geometry Mensuration Calculus Maths Notes (Class 8-12) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes Class 12 Notes NCERT Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution RD Sharma Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution Physics Notes (Class 8-11) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes Chemistry Notes Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes CS Exams/PSUs ISRO ISRO CS Original Papers and Official Keys ISRO CS Solved Papers ISRO CS Syllabus for Scientist/Engineer Exam UGC NET UGC NET CS Notes Paper II UGC NET CS Notes Paper III UGC NET CS Solved Papers Student Campus Ambassador Program School Ambassador Program Project Geek of the Month Campus Geek of the Month Placement Course Competititve Programming Testimonials Student Chapter Geek on the Top Internship Careers Jobs Apply for Jobs Post a Job Hire with Us Know about Jobathon Jobathon Practice All DSA Problems Problem of the Day Interview Series: Weekly Contests Bi-Wizard Coding: School Contests Contests and Events Practice SDE Sheet Curated DSA Lists Top 50 Array Problems Top 50 String Problems Top 50 Tree Problems Top 50 Graph Problems Top 50 DP Problems Write Come write articles for us and get featured Practice Learn and code with the best industry experts Premium Get access to ad-free content, doubt assistance and more! Jobs Come and find your dream job with us Geeks Digest Quizzes Geeks Campus Gblog Articles IDE Campus Mantri Home Saved Videos Courses GBlog Puzzles What's New ? Change Language Data Structures Algorithms Interview Preparation Topic-wise Practice C++ Java Python Competitive Programming Machine Learning HTML SDE Sheet Puzzles GFG School Projects ▲ Tag Archives: Binary Search Count of Pairs with given sum in Rotated Sorted Array Given an array arr[] of distinct elements size N that is sorted and then around an unknown point, the task is to count the number… Read More Binary Search Arrays Searching Last remaining element by removing values closest to half of Array sum Given an array arr[] of size N, the task is to find the last element remaining after removing all elements closest to sum/2 sequentially where… Read More Binary Search Arrays Searching Sorting Bike Racing A bike race is being organised with N bikers. The initial speed and the acceleration of the bikers are given in arrays H[] and A[]… Read More Binary Search Greedy Searching Count number in given range generated by concatenating two Array elements Given an array arr[] of size N and integers L and R defining the given range, the task is to find the number of elements… Read More Binary Search Arrays Mathematical Can Binary Search be applied in an Unsorted Array Easy Searching Algorithms are designed to check for an element or retrieve an element from any data structure where it is stored. Mainly the widely used… Read More Binary Search Searching Minimum time to complete at least K tasks when everyone rest after each task Given an array arr[] of size N representing the time taken by a person to complete a task. Also, an array restTime[] which denotes the… Read More Binary Search Arrays Searching Count all triplets from given Array whose bitwise XOR is equal to K Given an array arr[] which contains N positive integers and an integer K. The task is to count all triplets whose XOR is equal to… Read More Binary Search Bitwise-XOR Arrays Bit Magic Sorting Count of pairs of Array elements with average at least K Given an array A[] of size N consisting of N integers, the task is to count the number of pairs such that their average is… Read More Binary Search Arrays Sorting Find the Array formed by performing Q queries on an empty array Hard Consider an integer sequence S, which is initially empty (i.e. S = {}). Also given are Q queries, each of which is one of the… Read More array-range-queries Binary Search Geeks-Premier-League-2022 Arrays Geeks Premier League Mathematical Pattern Searching Minimize consecutive elements to be added for each element to make Array of at least C length Given a sorted array arr[] of size N, where arr[i] denotes the starting position of a sequence, the task is to find the minimum number… Read More Binary Search Geeks-Premier-League-2022 Arrays Geeks Premier League Searching Minimum work to be done per day to finish given tasks within D days Given an array task[] of size N denoting amount of work to be done for each task, the problem is to find the minimum amount… Read More Binary Search Arrays Searching Maximize median of sequence formed by choosing at least one from adjacent pairs Hard Given an array Arr[ ] of N integers where 1 ≤ N ≤ 105. The task is to choose any number of elements from the… Read More Binary Search Geeks-Premier-League-2022 subsequence Arrays Dynamic Programming Geeks Premier League Mathematical Searching Minimize range [L, R] to divide Array into K subarrays with majority elements in [L, R] Given an array arr[] of size N, the task is to find the minimum value range [L, R] such that: The array can be divided… Read More Binary Search Geeks-Premier-League-2022 prefix-sum subarray Arrays Geeks Premier League Hash Mathematical Searching Maximize numbers that can be grouped together based on given conditions Given a 2D array A[][] of size N x 2 where: Every element lies between [1, N]. A[i][0] signifies that there must be at most… Read More Binary Search Geeks-Premier-League-2022 Combinatorial Geeks Premier League Mathematical Searching Minimize sum of changes in Array such that ratio of new element to array sum is at most p:q Given an array A of n integers and two integers p and q, the task is to increase some (or all) of the values in… Read More Binary Search Geeks-Premier-League-2022 prefix-sum Ratio and Proportion Geeks Premier League Mathematical Searching Page 1 of 3012345...102030...»Last » What's New Data Structures & Algorithms- Self Paced Course View Details Complete Interview Preparation- Self Paced Course View Details Practice Problems, POTD Streak, Weekly Contests & More! View Details Improve your Coding Skills with PracticeTry It! A-143, 9th Floor, Sovereign Corporate Tower, Sector-136, Noida, Uttar Pradesh - 201305 feedback@geeksforgeeks.org Company About Us Careers In Media Contact Us Privacy Policy Copyright Policy Learn Algorithms Data Structures SDE Cheat Sheet Machine learning CS Subjects Video Tutorials Courses News Top News Technology Work & Career Business Finance Lifestyle Knowledge Languages Python Java CPP Golang C# SQL Kotlin Web Development Web Tutorials Django Tutorial HTML JavaScript Bootstrap ReactJS NodeJS Contribute Write an Article Improve an Article Pick Topics to Write Write Interview Experience Internships Video Internship @geeksforgeeks , Some rights reserved We use cookies to ensure you have the best browsing experience on our website. By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understood our Cookie Policy & Privacy Policy Got It ! Start Your Coding Journey Now! Login Register