https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/causes-of-rupee-falling-against-us-dollar-and-its-effect/ Causes Of Rupee Falling Against US Dollar And Its Effect - GeeksforGeeks Skip to content Courses For Working Professionals LIVE DSA Live Classes System Design Java Backend Development Full Stack LIVE Explore More Self-Paced DSA- Self Paced SDE Theory All Development Courses Explore More For Students LIVE Competitive Programming GATE Live Course 2023 Data Science Explore More Self-Paced DSA- Self Paced CIP JAVA / Python / C++ Explore More School Courses School Guide Python Programming Learn To Make Apps Explore more All Courses Tutorials Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Asymptotic Analysis Worst, Average and Best Cases Asymptotic Notations Little o and little omega notations Lower and Upper Bound Theory Analysis of Loops Solving Recurrences Amortized Analysis What does 'Space Complexity' mean ? Pseudo-polynomial Algorithms Polynomial Time Approximation Scheme A Time Complexity Question Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Bitwise Algorithms Randomized Algorithms Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch and Bound All Algorithms Data Structures Arrays Linked List Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings All Data Structures Interview Corner Company Preparation Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competititve Programming Design Patterns System Design Tutorial Multiple Choice Quizzes Languages C C++ Java Python C# JavaScript jQuery SQL PHP Scala Perl Go Language HTML CSS Kotlin ML & Data Science Machine Learning Data Science CS Subjects Mathematics Operating System DBMS Computer Networks Computer Organization and Architecture Theory of Computation Compiler Design Digital Logic Software Engineering GATE GATE Computer Science Notes Last Minute Notes GATE CS Solved Papers GATE CS Original Papers and Official Keys GATE 2021 Dates GATE CS 2021 Syllabus Important Topics for GATE CS Web Technologies HTML CSS JavaScript AngularJS ReactJS NodeJS Bootstrap jQuery PHP Software Designs Software Design Patterns System Design Tutorial School Learning School Programming Mathematics Number System Algebra Trigonometry Statistics Probability Geometry Mensuration Calculus Maths Notes (Class 8-12) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes Class 12 Notes NCERT Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution RD Sharma Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution Physics Notes (Class 8-11) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes Chemistry Notes Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes CS Exams/PSUs ISRO ISRO CS Original Papers and Official Keys ISRO CS Solved Papers ISRO CS Syllabus for Scientist/Engineer Exam UGC NET UGC NET CS Notes Paper II UGC NET CS Notes Paper III UGC NET CS Solved Papers Student Campus Ambassador Program School Ambassador Program Project Geek of the Month Campus Geek of the Month Placement Course Competititve Programming Testimonials Student Chapter Geek on the Top Internship Careers Jobs Apply for Jobs Post a Job Hire with Us Know about Jobathon Jobathon Practice All DSA Problems Problem of the Day Interview Series: Weekly Contests Bi-Wizard Coding: School Contests Contests and Events Practice SDE Sheet Curated DSA Lists Top 50 Array Problems Top 50 String Problems Top 50 Tree Problems Top 50 Graph Problems Top 50 DP Problems Write Come write articles for us and get featured Practice Learn and code with the best industry experts Premium Get access to ad-free content, doubt assistance and more! Jobs Come and find your dream job with us Geeks Digest Quizzes Geeks Campus Gblog Articles IDE Campus Mantri Home Saved Videos Courses GBlog Puzzles What's New ? Change Language Data Structures Algorithms Interview Preparation Topic-wise Practice C++ Java Python Competitive Programming Machine Learning HTML SDE Sheet Puzzles GFG School Projects Related Articles ▲ Related Articles Future Perspective For Non-Conventional Sources of Energy In India Role of Service Sector in Modern Economic Development of India How Public Sector Contributes to the Economic Development of a Nation? Pros and Cons of Globalization Legal Measures Taken by Government to Empower Consumers Scope and Future of Organic Farming With Sustainable Development 4 Major Sectors of an Economy Non-Farming Production Activities and Their Impact on Economy UPSC Prelims Answer Key 2022 - General Studies Paper 1 Objectives of Government Budget Role of Foreign Exchange Market in India Overview Of Indian Financial System Poverty Alleviation Programmes in India Activities of 3 Main Sectors of Indian Economy Potential GDP and its Determinants and Factors Trade and Investment Policy Reforms Since 1991 New Industrial Policy 1991 Challenges of Power Sector of India Population as an Asset for the Economy Rather Than a Liability Main Characteristics of Capitalist Economy Challenges For Indian Women Against Time and Space Role of Supermarkets in the Supply Chain Management Quality of Population Strategies to Improve Health Facility in India How to Protect Workers in the Unorganized Sector? Achievements of India’s Industrial Sector Between 1950-1990 Difference Between NITI Aayog and Planning Commission Educated Unemployed - A Peculiar Problem of India Microeconomics and Macroeconomics Open Economy Autonomous Expenditure Multiplier Smaller than Closed Economy Future Perspective For Non-Conventional Sources of Energy In India Role of Service Sector in Modern Economic Development of India How Public Sector Contributes to the Economic Development of a Nation? Pros and Cons of Globalization Legal Measures Taken by Government to Empower Consumers Scope and Future of Organic Farming With Sustainable Development 4 Major Sectors of an Economy Non-Farming Production Activities and Their Impact on Economy UPSC Prelims Answer Key 2022 - General Studies Paper 1 Objectives of Government Budget Role of Foreign Exchange Market in India Overview Of Indian Financial System Poverty Alleviation Programmes in India Activities of 3 Main Sectors of Indian Economy Potential GDP and its Determinants and Factors Trade and Investment Policy Reforms Since 1991 New Industrial Policy 1991 Challenges of Power Sector of India Population as an Asset for the Economy Rather Than a Liability Main Characteristics of Capitalist Economy Challenges For Indian Women Against Time and Space Role of Supermarkets in the Supply Chain Management Quality of Population Strategies to Improve Health Facility in India How to Protect Workers in the Unorganized Sector? Achievements of India’s Industrial Sector Between 1950-1990 Difference Between NITI Aayog and Planning Commission Educated Unemployed - A Peculiar Problem of India Microeconomics and Macroeconomics Open Economy Autonomous Expenditure Multiplier Smaller than Closed Economy Causes Of Rupee Falling Against US Dollar And Its Effect View Discussion Improve Article Save Article Like Article Last Updated : 29 Jul, 2022 Whenever the value of a currency falls, it badly impacts that nation’s economy and results in a higher rate of inflation. The value of any currency falls or rises based on the demand for one currency over another. For example, if there is a higher demand for the US dollar than the Indian Rupee then the value of the Indian rupee falls against US Dollar and vice-versa. The demand for a currency is driven by the nation’s total imports and exports. Like if India imports more than it export it raises the demand for the US dollar oversupply thus resulting in a fall in the value of the Indian rupee against the US Dollar. Rupee Falls Against US Dollar How does the Value of the Indian Rupee fall against US$? India is a major importer of some basic amenities like crude oil, metals, electronic items, etc. And whenever India imports anything more another nation makes payment in US$. Thus when the Indian Rupee is falling, against US Dollar, India needs to pay more for the same item. This results in increases in the actual price of the stuff and this price hike keeps on passing from manufacturer to the customer. Thus whenever the Indian Rupee falls against US$ the prices of essential goods and services increase. On Tuesday, July 18th, 2022 the Indian rupee observed a record low of INR 80.05 in the international market. What are the Main Reasons Behind the Fall of the Indian Rupee? The value of a currency is driven by many factors and thus it’s and rises and can’t depend on any single factor. The below reasons are mainly responsible for the fall in the value of the Indian rupee. One of the most important factors that contributed heavily to the fall of the Indian rupee is the fluctuation in global oil prices. As India is not a massive oil-producing country and imports more than 80% of oil from other nations to meet its fuel demand. So whenever the oil prices observe a price hike the spending on total oil imports of India increases against its export. In the last 3-4 months crude oil has observed a huge price hike due to the Russia-Ukraine war. The per barrel price of crude is constantly increasing from USD 110 per barrel to USD 122 per barrel in July, thus significantly affecting the value of the Indian Rupee. A heavy outflow in foreign funds from the domestic market is also an important reason for the depreciation of the Indian Rupee. From the beginning of Fiscal 2022-23 till now the foreign investors sold shares worth more than 28.4 billion US dollars. This figure for foreign fund outflow is even more than that of 11.8 billion UD dollars during the Global Financial Crisis of 2008. Other reasons for the decrease in the value of the Indian rupee are unemployment, economic challenges, and higher inflation rates. From the beginning of the financial year 2022-23 till today, the value Indian Rupee has observed a decline of more than 6%. How does the Fall of the Indian Rupee Affect the Indian Economy? The value and performance of a currency have a huge impact on its economy, as the currency performs well the economy performs well, and vice-versa. A fall in the value of the Indian Rupee badly affects the economy as the rate of inflation increases in the country. However fall in the currency improves the exports of the nation as it becomes cheaper for foreign buyers, but as per the current scenario, there is a huge reduction in the overall global demand. Thus the total exports from the nation also decreased contributing furthermore to the fall of the Indian rupee. With the fall in the Indian rupee, the MSME sector gets badly impacted and thus resulting in job losses and increases unemployment. The GOIs and RBIs Stand on the Falling of the Indian Rupee: Whenever there is a huge drop in the value of the Indian Rupee the government of India and the Reserve Bank of India takes necessary actions to control the depreciation of the Indian rupee. To control the falling of the rupee against the Dollar, the RBI and GOI can be seen taking some steps discussed below. Restricting imports of non-essential goods or increasing the import duty on the same. To balance the currency rates the Gold deposits can be increased. Promoting foreign direct investments to increase the capital inflow. My Personal Notes arrow_drop_up Save Like Previous Poona Pact Recommended Articles Page : Challenges For Indian Women Against Time and Space 27, Nov 21 Causes of Inflation and Who get Benefit from it? 14, Jun 22 Effect of Autonomous Change in Aggregate Demand on Income and Output 23, Dec 21 Potential GDP and its Determinants and Factors 21, Nov 21 What is Buffer Stock and its Impact on the Rationing System of India? 27, Sep 21 Deindustrialization in India Before 1947 and its Impact 14, Sep 21 Labour Regulations And Its Effects In India 26, Apr 22 Mining Sector In India And Its Challenges 30, Jun 22 Mid-day Meal Scheme And Its Challenges 01, Jul 22 RBI And Its Functions 03, Jul 22 Tertiary Sector And Its Potential 03, Jul 22 Direct And Indirect Farm Subsidies And MSP 10, May 22 Difference and Relationship Between Foreign Trade and Foreign Investment 21, Feb 22 Money Laundering: Problem and Prevention 23, Mar 22 Diversification Towards Animal Husbandry, Fisheries and Horticulture 18, Oct 21 Pros and Cons of Globalization 16, Sep 21 Scope and Future of Organic Farming With Sustainable Development 27, Sep 21 Non-Farming Production Activities and Their Impact on Economy 18, Oct 21 Trade and Investment Policy Reforms Since 1991 18, Oct 21 Marginal Propensity to Consume and Save - Definition & Relation 18, Oct 21 How Health is Related to the Overall Growth and Development of India? 26, Oct 21 Microeconomics and Macroeconomics 26, Oct 21 Ex-Ante and Ex-Post Investment 21, Nov 21 Difference Between NITI Aayog and Planning Commission 26, Nov 21 Article Contributed By : ayushp12312 @ayushp12312 Vote for difficulty Easy Normal Medium Hard Expert Article Tags : Economics UPSC Report Issue Writing code in comment? Please use ide.geeksforgeeks.org, generate link and share the link here. Load Comments What's New Practice Problems, POTD Streak, Weekly Contests & More! View Details Complete Interview Preparation- Self Paced Course View Details Data Structures & Algorithms- Self Paced Course View Details Improve your Coding Skills with PracticeTry It! A-143, 9th Floor, Sovereign Corporate Tower, Sector-136, Noida, Uttar Pradesh - 201305 feedback@geeksforgeeks.org Company About Us Careers In Media Contact Us Privacy Policy Copyright Policy Learn Algorithms Data Structures SDE Cheat Sheet Machine learning CS Subjects Video Tutorials Courses News Top News Technology Work & Career Business Finance Lifestyle Knowledge Languages Python Java CPP Golang C# SQL Kotlin Web Development Web Tutorials Django Tutorial HTML JavaScript Bootstrap ReactJS NodeJS Contribute Write an Article Improve an Article Pick Topics to Write Write Interview Experience Internships Video Internship @geeksforgeeks , Some rights reserved We use cookies to ensure you have the best browsing experience on our website. By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understood our Cookie Policy & Privacy Policy Got It ! Start Your Coding Journey Now! Login Register