https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/cbse-class-9-chemistry-notes/?ref=ghm CBSE Class 9 Chemistry Notes - GeeksforGeeks Skip to content Courses For Working Professionals LIVE DSA Live Classes System Design Java Backend Development Full Stack LIVE Explore More Self-Paced DSA- Self Paced SDE Theory All Development Courses Explore More For Students LIVE Competitive Programming GATE Live Course 2023 Data Science Explore More Self-Paced DSA- Self Paced CIP JAVA / Python / C++ Explore More School Courses School Guide Python Programming Learn To Make Apps Explore more All Courses Tutorials Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Asymptotic Analysis Worst, Average and Best Cases Asymptotic Notations Little o and little omega notations Lower and Upper Bound Theory Analysis of Loops Solving Recurrences Amortized Analysis What does 'Space Complexity' mean ? Pseudo-polynomial Algorithms Polynomial Time Approximation Scheme A Time Complexity Question Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Bitwise Algorithms Randomized Algorithms Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch and Bound All Algorithms Data Structures Arrays Linked List Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings All Data Structures Interview Corner Company Preparation Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competititve Programming Design Patterns System Design Tutorial Multiple Choice Quizzes Languages C C++ Java Python C# JavaScript jQuery SQL PHP Scala Perl Go Language HTML CSS Kotlin ML & Data Science Machine Learning Data Science CS Subjects Mathematics Operating System DBMS Computer Networks Computer Organization and Architecture Theory of Computation Compiler Design Digital Logic Software Engineering GATE GATE Computer Science Notes Last Minute Notes GATE CS Solved Papers GATE CS Original Papers and Official Keys GATE 2021 Dates GATE CS 2021 Syllabus Important Topics for GATE CS Web Technologies HTML CSS JavaScript AngularJS ReactJS NodeJS Bootstrap jQuery PHP Software Designs Software Design Patterns System Design Tutorial School Learning School Programming Mathematics Number System Algebra Trigonometry Statistics Probability Geometry Mensuration Calculus Maths Notes (Class 8-12) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes Class 12 Notes NCERT Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution RD Sharma Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution Physics Notes (Class 8-11) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes Chemistry Notes Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes CS Exams/PSUs ISRO ISRO CS Original Papers and Official Keys ISRO CS Solved Papers ISRO CS Syllabus for Scientist/Engineer Exam UGC NET UGC NET CS Notes Paper II UGC NET CS Notes Paper III UGC NET CS Solved Papers Student Campus Ambassador Program School Ambassador Program Project Geek of the Month Campus Geek of the Month Placement Course Competititve Programming Testimonials Student Chapter Geek on the Top Internship Careers Jobs Apply for Jobs Post a Job Hire with Us Know about Jobathon Jobathon Practice All DSA Problems Problem of the Day Interview Series: Weekly Contests Bi-Wizard Coding: School Contests Contests and Events Practice SDE Sheet Curated DSA Lists Top 50 Array Problems Top 50 String Problems Top 50 Tree Problems Top 50 Graph Problems Top 50 DP Problems Write Come write articles for us and get featured Practice Learn and code with the best industry experts Premium Get access to ad-free content, doubt assistance and more! Jobs Come and find your dream job with us Geeks Digest Quizzes Geeks Campus Gblog Articles IDE Campus Mantri Home Saved Videos Courses GBlog Puzzles What's New ? Change Language Data Structures Algorithms Interview Preparation Topic-wise Practice C++ Java Python Competitive Programming Machine Learning HTML SDE Sheet Puzzles GFG School Projects Related Articles ▲ Related Articles GeeksforGeeks School What is a Storage Device? Definition, Types, Examples Number System in Maths What is Multimedia? Input and Output Devices Wired and Wireless Networking Newton's First Law of Motion Algebra Mid Point Theorem - Quadrilaterals | Class 9 Maths Statistics Equation of Motion by Graphical Method Calculus Real Numbers Pure and Impure Substances Mean, Median, Mode, and Range - Statistics | Class 9 Maths Probability in Maths Trigonometry Number System and Arithmetic Saturated and Unsaturated Solutions Geometry CBSE Class 9 Maths Notes Introduction to Microsoft PowerPoint Acceleration due to Gravity NCERT Solutions for Class 9 Maths Theorem - The sum of opposite angles of a cyclic quadrilateral is 180° | Class 9 Maths Mensuration Separation of Mixtures Theorem - Angle opposite to equal sides of an isosceles triangle are equal | Class 9 Maths Reflection of Sound Homogeneous and Heterogeneous Mixtures GeeksforGeeks School What is a Storage Device? Definition, Types, Examples Number System in Maths What is Multimedia? Input and Output Devices Wired and Wireless Networking Newton's First Law of Motion Algebra Mid Point Theorem - Quadrilaterals | Class 9 Maths Statistics Equation of Motion by Graphical Method Calculus Real Numbers Pure and Impure Substances Mean, Median, Mode, and Range - Statistics | Class 9 Maths Probability in Maths Trigonometry Number System and Arithmetic Saturated and Unsaturated Solutions Geometry CBSE Class 9 Maths Notes Introduction to Microsoft PowerPoint Acceleration due to Gravity NCERT Solutions for Class 9 Maths Theorem - The sum of opposite angles of a cyclic quadrilateral is 180° | Class 9 Maths Mensuration Separation of Mixtures Theorem - Angle opposite to equal sides of an isosceles triangle are equal | Class 9 Maths Reflection of Sound Homogeneous and Heterogeneous Mixtures CBSE Class 9 Chemistry Notes View Discussion Improve Article Save Article Like Article Last Updated : 06 Jul, 2022 Chemistry is a branch of science that studies the structure of substances and what happens to them in different conditions or when mixed with each other. The fundamental elements of Matter, Atoms, and Molecules are the main focus of Class 9 Chemistry Notes. These Chemistry notes will help not even to gain good grades in your exams but also help for the preparation of competitive exams like KVPY, NTSE, Olympiads, etc. Thus, GeeksforGeeks’s Class 9 Chemistry notes are designed and developed per the NCERT textbook of Science for Class 9, in such a way that will help students to study more efficiently and understand each concept covered in their Class 9 syllabus. GeeksforGeeks presented Free Chapterwise CBSE Notes for revision, to learn and explore more about the subject. The below-mentioned articles in each Chapter consist of all the important topics that are needed to study for scoring good marks and knowledge. These Class 9 Chemistry Notes have been designed based on the latest NCERT books and curriculum issued for this academic session. Chapter 1: Matter in our Surroundings Chapter 1 in the Class 9 Chemistry curriculum is “Matter in our Surroundings”. In this chapter, we will study things or matters that exist around us. Everything in the universe is made up of substances that scientists refer to as matter. Hence, Everything around us is matters: the food we eat, the water we drink, the air we breathe, plants and animals, etc. Following are a list of the major topics that are discussed in the articles along with some solved Sample Questions to understand better: Matter is Made Up of Particles Brownian Motion and Diffusion Difference between Rigidity and Fluidity of Matter Classification of Matter Why Solids, Liquids, and Gases Have Different Properties Prove That Liquids have No fixed Shape but have a Fixed Volume Diffusion in Solids, Liquids, and Gases What is the Unit of Temperature? What is the Relationship Between Celsius and Kelvin Scale of Temperature? Changing States of Matter Effect of Change of Temperature What is a Melting Point? What is Vaporization? What is Condensation? What is Freezing? Effect of Change of Pressure Liquification of Gases Evaporation Effects of Relative Humidity and Wind Speed How Does Evaporation Cause Cooling? How to demonstrate the Presence of Water Vapour in Air? What is Plasma and Bose-Einstein Condensate? Chapter 2: Is Matter Around Us Pure The second chapter in the Class 9 syllabus is in the continuation of the previous Chapter. Is Matter Around Us Pure, helps to understand that the matter, what we discussed in the previous chapter is pure or not. In our day-to-day life, we come across and utilize a variety of items on a regular basis, such as milk, butter, salt, water, and juice. What factors do we use to determine whether or not all of these things are pure? So, the following articles provided in the below links helps to learn more about the matter and its properties: Pure and Impure Substances What is an Element? Metals, Non-Metals, and Metalloids Properties of Metals and Non-Metals What is a Mixture? – Definition, Types, Properties, Examples Homogeneous and Heterogeneous Mixtures Difference Between Compounds and Mixtures What is a Solution? What is a Suspension? Colloids – Definition, Types, Properties, Applications How will you distinguish a Colloid from a Solution? Tyndall Effect Classification of Colloids Concentration of a Solution Saturated and Unsaturated Solutions Factors affecting Solubility Separation of Mixtures How to separate a Mixture of Two Solids? Separation by a suitable solvent Separation of Mixtures using Sublimation and Magnets How to Separate a Mixture of a Solid and a Liquid? Separation by Filtration Water Purification Separation by Centrifugation How to Separate Cream from milk? Separation by Evaporation Crystallization Separation by Chromatography Separation by Distillation Separation of Mixtures of Two or More liquids Separation by Fractional Distillation Chapter 3: Atoms and Molecules Chapter 3 in the Class 9 Chemistry syllabus is Atoms and Molecules. Atom is the smallest building block that constitutes a matter. However, a molecule is a group of two or more atoms combined together. Atoms and molecules are a significant part of a chemical reaction. The laws of chemical combination are the first major idea covered in this chapter. Under this Chapter, the following topics are explained in the links mentioned below: Laws of Chemical Combination Conservation of Mass To Verify Law of Conservation of Mass in a Chemical Reaction Law of Constant Proportions Dalton’s Atomic Theory Law of Constant Proportions Drawbacks of Dalton’s Atomic Theory Atomic Mass Significance of the Symbol of Elements How Do Atoms Exist? Molecules and Compounds Chemical Formula of Common Compounds Molecular Mass Difference between Cations and Anions Polyatomic Ions What are Ionic Compounds? Formula Mass of Ionic Compounds What is a Chemical Formula? Definition, Types, Examples How to Calculate Valency of Radicals? What are Monovalent Ions? What are Divalent Ions? Trivalent Ions – Cations and Anions Formulas of Ionic Compounds What is the Significance of the Formula of a Substance? Gram Atomic and Gram Molecular Mass Mole Concept – What is a Mole, Molar Mass, Solved Examples Problems Based on Mole Concepts Chapter 4: Structure of the Atom Structure of Atom is the last and the fourth chapter in the Class 9 Chemistry curriculum. Structure of the Atom introduces the concept of how atoms were discovered, as well as other historical aspects of the atom’s discovery. These notes give students a review of the chapter, crucial things to remember, and extensive explanations of key concepts and derivations to help them comprehend the material better. Class 9 Notes on the Structure of the Atom is designed to make learning and revision easier through the following articles: What is an Atom? Definition, Structure, Parts Composition of an Atom Charged Particles in Matter Discovery of Electrons What is a Proton? Definition, Discovery, Characteristics Neutron – Discovery, Definition, Characteristics, Applications Thomson’s Atomic Model Rutherford’s Alpha Scattering Experiment Atomic Nucleus – Definition, Structure, Discovery, Characteristics Rutherford’s Atomic Model Drawbacks of Rutherford’s Atomic Model How did Neil Bohr explained the Stability of Atom? Bohr’s Model of an Atom Atomic Number and Mass Number Relation Between Mass Number and Atomic Number Arrangement of Electrons in the Atoms Electronic Configuration of Elements Potassium and Calcium – Atomic Structure, Chemical Properties, Uses Valence Electrons Noble Gas What is meant by Chemical Combination? Valency and Valence Electrons: Definition, Examples, and Relation Difference between Electrovalency and Covalency What are Isotopes? Why do all the Isotopes of an Element have similar Chemical Properties? Why Isotopes have different Physical Properties? What is Fractional Atomic Mass? Radioactive Isotopes – Definition, Properties, Uses What are Isotopes? My Personal Notes arrow_drop_up Save Like Previous CBSE Class 10 Chemistry Notes Next CBSE Class 8 Chemistry Notes Recommended Articles Page : CBSE Class 8 Chemistry Notes 09, Jan 22 CBSE Class 10 Chemistry Notes 09, Jan 22 CBSE Class 12 Term 1 Chemistry Answer Key 2021 02, Feb 22 What is Green Chemistry? 20, Sep 21 Importance of Chemistry in Everyday Life 27, Nov 21 CBSE Class 9 Physics Notes 11, Nov 21 CBSE Class 9 Maths Notes 19, Apr 21 CBSE Class 10 Term 1 Science Answer Key 2021-22 10, Jan 22 CBSE Class 12 Exam Pattern 2021-22 18, Feb 22 CBSE Class 9 Maths Formulas 09, Jan 22 Polynomials in One Variable - Polynomials | Class 9 Maths 12, Jan 21 Class 9 RD Sharma Solutions- Chapter 21 Surface Area and Volume of a Sphere - Exercise 21.1 15, Jan 21 Class 9 RD Sharma Solutions - Chapter 23 Graphical Representation of Statistical Data - Exercise 23.1 | Set 1 17, Mar 21 Class 9 RD Sharma Solutions - Chapter 10 Congruent Triangles- Exercise 10.6 24, Mar 21 Class 9 NCERT Solutions- Chapter 1 Number System - Exercise 1.5 17, Dec 20 Class 9 RD Sharma- Chapter 22 Tabular Representation of Statistical Data - Exercise 22.1 | Set 1 12, Apr 21 Class 9 NCERT Solutions- Chapter 11 Constructions - Exercise 11.1 24, Dec 20 Class 9 NCERT Solutions- Chapter 7 Triangles - Exercise 7.1 25, Dec 20 Class 9 NCERT Solutions- Chapter 7 Triangles - Exercise 7.2 06, Jan 21 Class 9 RD Sharma- Chapter 22 Tabular Representation of Statistical Data - Exercise 22.1 | Set 2 12, Apr 21 Class 9 RD Sharma Solutions - Chapter 3 Rationalisation- Exercise 3.2 | Set 1 02, May 21 Class 9 NCERT Solutions- Chapter 5 Introduction to Euclid's Geometry - Exercise 5.2 25, Dec 20 Standard Algebraic Identities | Class 9 Maths 10, Feb 21 Mid Point Theorem - Quadrilaterals | Class 9 Maths 25, Oct 20 Article Contributed By : GeeksforGeeks Vote for difficulty Easy Normal Medium Hard Expert Improved By : anjalishukla1859 Article Tags : Class 9 School Chemistry School Learning Report Issue Writing code in comment? Please use ide.geeksforgeeks.org, generate link and share the link here. Load Comments What's New School Guide: Roadmap For School Students View Details Data Structures & Algorithms- Self Paced Course View Details Complete Interview Preparation- Self Paced Course View Details Improve your Coding Skills with PracticeTry It! A-143, 9th Floor, Sovereign Corporate Tower, Sector-136, Noida, Uttar Pradesh - 201305 feedback@geeksforgeeks.org Company About Us Careers In Media Contact Us Privacy Policy Copyright Policy Learn Algorithms Data Structures SDE Cheat Sheet Machine learning CS Subjects Video Tutorials Courses News Top News Technology Work & Career Business Finance Lifestyle Knowledge Languages Python Java CPP Golang C# SQL Kotlin Web Development Web Tutorials Django Tutorial HTML JavaScript Bootstrap ReactJS NodeJS Contribute Write an Article Improve an Article Pick Topics to Write Write Interview Experience Internships Video Internship @geeksforgeeks , Some rights reserved We use cookies to ensure you have the best browsing experience on our website. By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understood our Cookie Policy & Privacy Policy Got It ! Start Your Coding Journey Now! Login Register