https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/cbse-class-8-chemistry-notes/?ref=ghm CBSE Class 8 Chemistry Notes - GeeksforGeeks Skip to content Courses For Working Professionals LIVE DSA Live Classes System Design Java Backend Development Full Stack LIVE Explore More Self-Paced DSA- Self Paced SDE Theory All Development Courses Explore More For Students LIVE Competitive Programming GATE Live Course 2023 Data Science Explore More Self-Paced DSA- Self Paced CIP JAVA / Python / C++ Explore More School Courses School Guide Python Programming Learn To Make Apps Explore more All Courses Tutorials Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Asymptotic Analysis Worst, Average and Best Cases Asymptotic Notations Little o and little omega notations Lower and Upper Bound Theory Analysis of Loops Solving Recurrences Amortized Analysis What does 'Space Complexity' mean ? Pseudo-polynomial Algorithms Polynomial Time Approximation Scheme A Time Complexity Question Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Bitwise Algorithms Randomized Algorithms Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch and Bound All Algorithms Data Structures Arrays Linked List Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings All Data Structures Interview Corner Company Preparation Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competititve Programming Design Patterns System Design Tutorial Multiple Choice Quizzes Languages C C++ Java Python C# JavaScript jQuery SQL PHP Scala Perl Go Language HTML CSS Kotlin ML & Data Science Machine Learning Data Science CS Subjects Mathematics Operating System DBMS Computer Networks Computer Organization and Architecture Theory of Computation Compiler Design Digital Logic Software Engineering GATE GATE Computer Science Notes Last Minute Notes GATE CS Solved Papers GATE CS Original Papers and Official Keys GATE 2021 Dates GATE CS 2021 Syllabus Important Topics for GATE CS Web Technologies HTML CSS JavaScript AngularJS ReactJS NodeJS Bootstrap jQuery PHP Software Designs Software Design Patterns System Design Tutorial School Learning School Programming Mathematics Number System Algebra Trigonometry Statistics Probability Geometry Mensuration Calculus Maths Notes (Class 8-12) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes Class 12 Notes NCERT Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution RD Sharma Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution Physics Notes (Class 8-11) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes Chemistry Notes Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes CS Exams/PSUs ISRO ISRO CS Original Papers and Official Keys ISRO CS Solved Papers ISRO CS Syllabus for Scientist/Engineer Exam UGC NET UGC NET CS Notes Paper II UGC NET CS Notes Paper III UGC NET CS Solved Papers Student Campus Ambassador Program School Ambassador Program Project Geek of the Month Campus Geek of the Month Placement Course Competititve Programming Testimonials Student Chapter Geek on the Top Internship Careers Jobs Apply for Jobs Post a Job Hire with Us Know about Jobathon Jobathon Practice All DSA Problems Problem of the Day Interview Series: Weekly Contests Bi-Wizard Coding: School Contests Contests and Events Practice SDE Sheet Curated DSA Lists Top 50 Array Problems Top 50 String Problems Top 50 Tree Problems Top 50 Graph Problems Top 50 DP Problems Write Come write articles for us and get featured Practice Learn and code with the best industry experts Premium Get access to ad-free content, doubt assistance and more! Jobs Come and find your dream job with us Geeks Digest Quizzes Geeks Campus Gblog Articles IDE Campus Mantri Home Saved Videos Courses GBlog Puzzles What's New ? Change Language Data Structures Algorithms Interview Preparation Topic-wise Practice C++ Java Python Competitive Programming Machine Learning HTML SDE Sheet Puzzles GFG School Projects Related Articles ▲ Related Articles GeeksforGeeks School Number System in Maths Static and Kinetic Friction Biodegradable and Non-biodegradable Materials Algebra Statistics Factors Affecting Friction What is an Algorithm? Definition, Types, Complexity, Examples CBSE Class 8 Maths Notes Calculus Types of Quadrilaterals - Rectangle, Square, Rhombus, Parallelogram | Class 8 Maths Introduction to Mensuration Types of Friction Probability in Maths Trigonometry Dispersion of Light Number System and Arithmetic RD Sharma Class 8 Solutions for Maths Geometry What causes an Earthquake? What is the Impact of E-Commerce on the Society? Limiting Friction NCERT Solutions for Class 8 Maths Photoshop Slice Tool Representation of Rational Numbers on the Number Line | Class 8 Maths Area of Trapezium - Mensuration | Class 8 Maths Fluid Friction Algebraic Expressions and Identities | Class 8 Maths Artificial Satellites Earthquake - Definition, Causes, Effects, Protection GeeksforGeeks School Number System in Maths Static and Kinetic Friction Biodegradable and Non-biodegradable Materials Algebra Statistics Factors Affecting Friction What is an Algorithm? Definition, Types, Complexity, Examples CBSE Class 8 Maths Notes Calculus Types of Quadrilaterals - Rectangle, Square, Rhombus, Parallelogram | Class 8 Maths Introduction to Mensuration Types of Friction Probability in Maths Trigonometry Dispersion of Light Number System and Arithmetic RD Sharma Class 8 Solutions for Maths Geometry What causes an Earthquake? What is the Impact of E-Commerce on the Society? Limiting Friction NCERT Solutions for Class 8 Maths Photoshop Slice Tool Representation of Rational Numbers on the Number Line | Class 8 Maths Area of Trapezium - Mensuration | Class 8 Maths Fluid Friction Algebraic Expressions and Identities | Class 8 Maths Artificial Satellites Earthquake - Definition, Causes, Effects, Protection CBSE Class 8 Chemistry Notes View Discussion Improve Article Save Article Like Article Last Updated : 06 Jul, 2022 GeeksforGeeks presents CBSE Class 8 Chemistry Notes which are based on the latest syllabus prescribed by the Central Board of Education (CBSE). CBSE recommends NCERT books for studies in all the affiliated schools. Hence, GeeksforGeeks’s Class 8 Chemistry notes are designed and developed per the NCERT textbook of Science for Class 8, in such a way that will help students to study more effectively and understand each concept covered in their Class 8 curriculum. These Chemistry notes will help not even to gain good grades in your academics but also benefits in the preparation of various competitive exams like NTSE and Olympiads. By the time students come to Class 8, they already have some understanding of the Basic concept of Science. Hence, the below mentioned Chemistry revision notes for them are built on the concepts they have already learnt in Class 6 and Class 7. Here the important chapters like Metals and Non-Metals, Coal and Petroleum, etc are presented in an easy manner for thorough learning as well as for quick revision. Chapter 1: Synthetic Fibres and Plastics The first chapter in the Class 8 Syllabus of Chemistry is Synthetic Fibres and Plastics. This chapter is all about clothes that we wear daily and are made up of fabrics. Also, Synthetic fibres and plastics, are similar to natural fibres which are made up of very large units. Here in this chapter, we have covered from basic introduction to synthetic fibres to their different types and more about Plastics. Following is the list of the articles that contain the help to gain depth about Synthetic Fibres and Plastics as: Synthetic and Natural Fibers Types of Synthetic Fibres Polyethylene Terephthalate Characteristics of Synthetic Fibres What is Plastic? Biodegradable and Non-biodegradable Materials Plastic Pollution Chapter 2: Metals and Non-Metals Metals and Non-Metals is the second Chapter in the Class 8 curriculum of Chemistry. This chapter gives us knowledge of things around us which are categorized into either metals or non-metals. Metals are the materials that are the good conductors of heat and electricity like Iron etc. However, Non-metals are the material that is the poor conductor of heat and electricity like Carbon, etc. Below are the links to the articles that cover all the basic information about Materials: Metals and Non-Metals: Metals, Non-metals and Metalloids Properties of Metals, Non-metals and Metalloids Physical Properties of Metals and Non-metals Chemical Properties of Metals and Non-metals Reactivity Series of Metals Uses of Metals and Non-metals Chapter 3: Coal and Petroleum Chapter 3 is one of the most informative chapters in the Class 8 Chemistry curriculum. As in this chapter, we will learn about energy and resources. Fossil Fuels and Coal. Coal and Petroleum are exhaustible or non-renewable resources. The resources are present in limited quantity in nature. The following list of the articles discuss all the basic concepts along with the deeper explanation on each topic discussing some solved sample questions for quick understanding: Exhaustible and Inexhaustible Natural Resources What are Fossil Fuels? Products of Coal: Coke, Coal Tar and Coal Gas What is Petroleum? – Occurrence, Refining, Formation, Uses Petroleum Products Fractional Distillation of Petroleum Sources of Energy – Natural Gas, Petrochemicals and Alternative Sources Chapter 4: Combustion and Flame Combustion and Flame is the fourth chapter of Chemistry in the Class 8 Science syllabus. This chapter discusses a most important chemical process called Combustion in which a substance reacts with oxygen to give heat and light. For example when a match stick burns it fires up with a flame and so provides heat also. Flame is the gaseous and visible part of the fire. Now, let’s discuss the topics related to combustion and flame in the below articles: Combustible and Non-combustible Substances What are the Conditions Necessary for Combustion? How do Safety Matches Work? Types of Combustion Combustion of Fuels – Definition, Types, Structure of Flame Chapter 5: Pollution of Air and Water The Chapter 5 in Class 8 Chemistry is the Pollution of Air and Water. As a result, in this chapter, we’ll look at the negative changes in our environment and how they affect our lives. Natural sources of pollution include smoke and dust from forest fires and volcanic eruptions. Global warming is caused by rising carbon dioxide levels. Below mentioned is the list of the topics that cover all the basic information about Pollution of Air and Water: What is Air Pollution? Definition, Types, Causes, Prevention Chlorofluorocarbons and Ozone Depletion What are the Effects of Acid Rain on Taj Mahal? What is Global Warming? – Definition, Causes, Effects and Impacts Water Pollution – Definition, Causes, Prevention Prevention of Water Pollution My Personal Notes arrow_drop_up Save Like Previous CBSE Class 9 Chemistry Notes Next CBSE Class 10 Term 1 Science Answer Key 2021-22 Recommended Articles Page : CBSE Class 9 Chemistry Notes 09, Jan 22 CBSE Class 10 Chemistry Notes 09, Jan 22 CBSE Class 12 Term 1 Chemistry Answer Key 2021 02, Feb 22 What is Green Chemistry? 20, Sep 21 Importance of Chemistry in Everyday Life 27, Nov 21 CBSE Class 8 Maths Notes 19, Apr 21 CBSE Physics Class 8 Notes 11, Nov 21 CBSE Class 10 Term 1 Science Answer Key 2021-22 10, Jan 22 CBSE Class 12 Exam Pattern 2021-22 18, Feb 22 CBSE Class 8 Maths Formulas 08, Jan 22 Class 8 NCERT Solutions- Chapter 8 Comparing Quantities - Exercise 8.3 25, Dec 20 Class 8 RD Sharma Solutions - Chapter 9 Linear Equation In One Variable - Exercise 9.3 | Set 1 12, Dec 20 Class 8 NCERT Solutions - Chapter 2 Linear Equations in One Variable - Exercise 2.6 06, Nov 20 Class 8 RD Sharma Solutions - Chapter 14 Compound Interest - Exercise 14.4 | Set 1 08, Dec 20 Mathematical Operations on Algebraic Expressions - Algebraic Expressions and Identities | Class 8 Maths 16, Nov 20 Class 8 NCERT Solutions - Chapter 8 Comparing Quantities - Exercise 8.2 17, Nov 20 Class 8 NCERT Solutions - Chapter 6 Squares and Square Roots - Exercise 6.1 26, Oct 20 Class 8 RD Sharma Solutions - Chapter 2 Powers - Exercise 2.2 | Set 2 06, Nov 20 Class 8 RD Sharma Solutions - Chapter 1 Rational Numbers - Exercise 1.8 07, Nov 20 Class 8 RD Sharma Solutions - Chapter 3 Squares and Square Roots - Exercise 3.3 | Set 1 27, Feb 21 Class 8 RD Sharma Solutions - Chapter 7 Factorization - Exercise 7.8 | Set 2 09, Dec 20 Mensuration - Volume of Cube, Cuboid, and Cylinder | Class 8 Maths 23, Oct 20 Class 8 RD Sharma Solutions - Chapter 5 Playing with Numbers - Exercise 5.1 10, Nov 20 Linear Equations in One Variable - Solving Equations which have Linear Expressions on one Side and Numbers on the other Side | Class 8 Maths 28, Oct 20 Article Contributed By : GeeksforGeeks Vote for difficulty Easy Normal Medium Hard Expert Improved By : anjalishukla1859 Article Tags : Class 8 School Chemistry School Learning Report Issue Writing code in comment? Please use ide.geeksforgeeks.org, generate link and share the link here. Load Comments What's New School Guide: Roadmap For School Students View Details Data Structures & Algorithms- Self Paced Course View Details Complete Interview Preparation- Self Paced Course View Details Improve your Coding Skills with PracticeTry It! A-143, 9th Floor, Sovereign Corporate Tower, Sector-136, Noida, Uttar Pradesh - 201305 feedback@geeksforgeeks.org Company About Us Careers In Media Contact Us Privacy Policy Copyright Policy Learn Algorithms Data Structures SDE Cheat Sheet Machine learning CS Subjects Video Tutorials Courses News Top News Technology Work & Career Business Finance Lifestyle Knowledge Languages Python Java CPP Golang C# SQL Kotlin Web Development Web Tutorials Django Tutorial HTML JavaScript Bootstrap ReactJS NodeJS Contribute Write an Article Improve an Article Pick Topics to Write Write Interview Experience Internships Video Internship @geeksforgeeks , Some rights reserved We use cookies to ensure you have the best browsing experience on our website. By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understood our Cookie Policy & Privacy Policy Got It ! Start Your Coding Journey Now! Login Register