https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/cbse-physics-class-8-notes/?ref=ghm CBSE Physics Class 8 Notes - GeeksforGeeks Skip to content Courses For Working Professionals LIVE DSA Live Classes System Design Java Backend Development Full Stack LIVE Explore More Self-Paced DSA- Self Paced SDE Theory All Development Courses Explore More For Students LIVE Competitive Programming GATE Live Course 2023 Data Science Explore More Self-Paced DSA- Self Paced CIP JAVA / Python / C++ Explore More School Courses School Guide Python Programming Learn To Make Apps Explore more All Courses Tutorials Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Asymptotic Analysis Worst, Average and Best Cases Asymptotic Notations Little o and little omega notations Lower and Upper Bound Theory Analysis of Loops Solving Recurrences Amortized Analysis What does 'Space Complexity' mean ? Pseudo-polynomial Algorithms Polynomial Time Approximation Scheme A Time Complexity Question Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Bitwise Algorithms Randomized Algorithms Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch and Bound All Algorithms Data Structures Arrays Linked List Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings All Data Structures Interview Corner Company Preparation Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competititve Programming Design Patterns System Design Tutorial Multiple Choice Quizzes Languages C C++ Java Python C# JavaScript jQuery SQL PHP Scala Perl Go Language HTML CSS Kotlin ML & Data Science Machine Learning Data Science CS Subjects Mathematics Operating System DBMS Computer Networks Computer Organization and Architecture Theory of Computation Compiler Design Digital Logic Software Engineering GATE GATE Computer Science Notes Last Minute Notes GATE CS Solved Papers GATE CS Original Papers and Official Keys GATE 2021 Dates GATE CS 2021 Syllabus Important Topics for GATE CS Web Technologies HTML CSS JavaScript AngularJS ReactJS NodeJS Bootstrap jQuery PHP Software Designs Software Design Patterns System Design Tutorial School Learning School Programming Mathematics Number System Algebra Trigonometry Statistics Probability Geometry Mensuration Calculus Maths Notes (Class 8-12) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes Class 12 Notes NCERT Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution RD Sharma Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution Physics Notes (Class 8-11) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes Chemistry Notes Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes CS Exams/PSUs ISRO ISRO CS Original Papers and Official Keys ISRO CS Solved Papers ISRO CS Syllabus for Scientist/Engineer Exam UGC NET UGC NET CS Notes Paper II UGC NET CS Notes Paper III UGC NET CS Solved Papers Student Campus Ambassador Program School Ambassador Program Project Geek of the Month Campus Geek of the Month Placement Course Competititve Programming Testimonials Student Chapter Geek on the Top Internship Careers Jobs Apply for Jobs Post a Job Hire with Us Know about Jobathon Jobathon Practice All DSA Problems Problem of the Day Interview Series: Weekly Contests Bi-Wizard Coding: School Contests Contests and Events Practice SDE Sheet Curated DSA Lists Top 50 Array Problems Top 50 String Problems Top 50 Tree Problems Top 50 Graph Problems Top 50 DP Problems Write Come write articles for us and get featured Practice Learn and code with the best industry experts Premium Get access to ad-free content, doubt assistance and more! Jobs Come and find your dream job with us Geeks Digest Quizzes Geeks Campus Gblog Articles IDE Campus Mantri Home Saved Videos Courses GBlog Puzzles What's New ? Change Language Data Structures Algorithms Interview Preparation Topic-wise Practice C++ Java Python Competitive Programming Machine Learning HTML SDE Sheet Puzzles GFG School Projects Related Articles ▲ Related Articles CBSE Physics Class 8 Notes What is Force? CBSE Physics Class 8 Notes GeeksforGeeks School Number System in Maths Static and Kinetic Friction Biodegradable and Non-biodegradable Materials Algebra Statistics Factors Affecting Friction What is an Algorithm? Definition, Types, Complexity, Examples CBSE Class 8 Maths Notes Calculus Types of Quadrilaterals - Rectangle, Square, Rhombus, Parallelogram | Class 8 Maths Introduction to Mensuration Types of Friction Probability in Maths Trigonometry Dispersion of Light Number System and Arithmetic RD Sharma Class 8 Solutions for Maths Geometry What causes an Earthquake? What is the Impact of E-Commerce on the Society? Limiting Friction NCERT Solutions for Class 8 Maths Photoshop Slice Tool Representation of Rational Numbers on the Number Line | Class 8 Maths Area of Trapezium - Mensuration | Class 8 Maths Fluid Friction CBSE Physics Class 8 Notes What is Force? CBSE Physics Class 8 Notes GeeksforGeeks School Number System in Maths Static and Kinetic Friction Biodegradable and Non-biodegradable Materials Algebra Statistics Factors Affecting Friction What is an Algorithm? Definition, Types, Complexity, Examples CBSE Class 8 Maths Notes Calculus Types of Quadrilaterals - Rectangle, Square, Rhombus, Parallelogram | Class 8 Maths Introduction to Mensuration Types of Friction Probability in Maths Trigonometry Dispersion of Light Number System and Arithmetic RD Sharma Class 8 Solutions for Maths Geometry What causes an Earthquake? What is the Impact of E-Commerce on the Society? Limiting Friction NCERT Solutions for Class 8 Maths Photoshop Slice Tool Representation of Rational Numbers on the Number Line | Class 8 Maths Area of Trapezium - Mensuration | Class 8 Maths Fluid Friction CBSE Physics Class 8 Notes View Discussion Improve Article Save Article Like Article Difficulty Level : Basic Last Updated : 21 Jun, 2022 GeeksforGeeks came up with a unique outlook to School Learning by providing CBSE Class 8 Physics notes. Since science is an integral subject of School Learning so is Physics too. Physics is one of the disciplines that most students grow up studying. This subject, in general, offers an understanding of how the fundamental elements of our daily lives function and perform. Therefore, GeeksforGeeks Class 8 Physics Notes ensures that you study everything in accordance with your NCERT textbook, core books, or reference books. The following chapter-wise CBSE Class 8 Physics notes consist of 7 chapters including Force and Pressure, Sound, Light, etc which are further equipped with various concepts, everyday life examples, and numericals on the same, in order to understand and solve the problems in a better way. Chapter 1: Force and Pressure The first chapter of Physics in the Science curriculum of Class 8 is Force and Pressure. Force is simply the push and pulls upon an object while Pressure is defined as the force applied per unit area of the object. Both the terms Force and Pressure are the basic building blocks of mechanics (a part of Physics). This chapter consists of two parts Force and Pressure respectively, Force includes basic concepts, types, properties/characteristics of forces, Friction and its different types, etc. While, the section on Pressure comprises Basic concepts, Types of Pressure and Buoyancy, etc which are explained in the articles listed below: What is Force? Push and Pull Force Interaction of Forces Types of Forces Exploring Forces Contact and Non Contact Forces Change in State of Motion Friction: A Necessary Evil Factors Affecting Friction Types of Friction Static and Kinetic Friction Limiting Friction Sliding Friction Fluid Friction Increasing and Reducing Friction What is Pressure? Types of Pressure Fluid Pressure Atmospheric Pressure Hydrostatic Pressure Buoyancy Chapter 2: Sound Sound is the second chapter of Physics in the Science curriculum of Class 8. Sound is something that can be heard from anything like Television, aeroplane, etc. Scientifically, Sound can be defined as an energy form that propagates in the form of waves and is produced by vibrations. The topics covered in this chapter helps to understand, the basic concept of Sound, Production, and propagation of Sound, Characteristics of Sound waves (like Amplitude, Time period, Frequency, Pitch, and Loudness), Types of Sounds (Audible and Inaudible Sounds) and about the Pollution caused by excessive sound that is Noise pollution. All such topics are thoroughly explained under the following headings as listed below: Sound Produced by a Vibrating Body How is Sound Produced by Humans? Sound Needs a Medium for Propagation How do we hear? Amplitude, Time Period, and Frequency of a Vibration Pitch and Loudness Audible and Inaudible Sounds Noise Pollution Chapter 3: Chemical Effects of Electric Current The third chapter of Physics in the Science textbook comes up is called Chemical Effects of Electric Current. Electric Current is the rate of the flow of electrons or charges in a conductor. Therefore, the passage of electric current through a conducting solution results in chemical reactions. This chapter builds a basic idea of electricity, which will be studied in later classes. As this chapter helps to develop a general idea, so we will learn about electroplating and the chemical changes that occur when electricity flows through the liquid and its applications. The topic discussed are listed below: Good Conductors and Poor Conductors of Electricity Do Liquids Conduct Electricity? Bases and Salts are Good Conductors Chemical Effects of Electric Current Electrolysis of Water What is Electroplating? Chapter 4: Some Natural Phenomena Some Natural Phenomena is the fourth chapter of Class 8 Physics. As the name of the chapter says, Some Natural Phenomena, therefore, it explains some naturally causing phenomena like lightning, earthquake which are destructive to some extent. Thus, the topics covered in this chapter come up with the basic idea of Lightening and Earthquakes, the destruction caused by them, how they occur? and measures to be taken during them. These concepts are discussed in the following articles: What is Lightning? How Lightning Works? Electric Charge Electroscope What is Earthing? Earthquake – Definition, Causes, Effects, Protection What causes an Earthquake? Chapter 5: Light The fifth chapter in the Class 8 Physics syllabus is Light. Light is a form of energy that enables us to see our surroundings when it gets reflected from objects around us. Light is emitted from a source such as the Sun. The term usually refers to visible light, which is visible to the human eye and is responsible for the sense of sight. This chapter helps to develop the general and the basic concept of Optics (a branch of Physics). According to the CBSE Class 8 Science Curriculum, here we have covered topics like the concept of Reflection, Laws of Reflection, Types of Reflection, Structure, and Working of the Human Eye, Dispersion of Light, etc. are discussed in the following articles listed below: Reflection of Light Laws of Reflection Regular and Diffused Reflection Multiple Reflections of Light Dispersion of Light Human Eye Braille System Chapter 6: Stars and the Solar System The last chapter of CBSE Class 8 Physics is Stars and the Solar System that leads one to go to infinity and beyond. Topics covered are celestial objects, Sun, comets, astronomy, planets, meteors, and meteorites, moon, satellites, meteor shower, stars, Astronomy in ancient India, artificial satellites, constellation, Mangalyaan which are discussed in the following articles listed below: What is a Star? Formation, Life Span, Constellations The Moon – Facts, Phases, Surface, Eclipse Artificial Satellites My Personal Notes arrow_drop_up Save Like Previous What is Force? Next GeeksforGeeks School Recommended Articles Page : CBSE Class 9 Physics Notes 11, Nov 21 CBSE Notes for Class 10 Physics 11, Nov 21 CBSE Class 11 Physics Notes 11, Nov 21 CBSE Class 12 Physics Term 1 Answer Key 2021 02, Feb 22 Braille System - Light | Class 8 Physics 01, Mar 21 How is Physics related to Other Sciences? 25, Jun 21 What is Physics? Definition, History, Importance, Scope 27, Dec 21 CBSE Class 8 Maths Notes 19, Apr 21 CBSE Class 8 Chemistry Notes 09, Jan 22 CBSE Class 10 Term 1 Science Answer Key 2021-22 10, Jan 22 CBSE Class 12 Exam Pattern 2021-22 18, Feb 22 CBSE Class 8 Maths Formulas 08, Jan 22 Class 8 NCERT Solutions- Chapter 8 Comparing Quantities - Exercise 8.3 25, Dec 20 Class 8 RD Sharma Solutions - Chapter 9 Linear Equation In One Variable - Exercise 9.3 | Set 1 12, Dec 20 Class 8 NCERT Solutions - Chapter 2 Linear Equations in One Variable - Exercise 2.6 06, Nov 20 Class 8 RD Sharma Solutions - Chapter 14 Compound Interest - Exercise 14.4 | Set 1 08, Dec 20 Mathematical Operations on Algebraic Expressions - Algebraic Expressions and Identities | Class 8 Maths 16, Nov 20 Class 8 NCERT Solutions - Chapter 8 Comparing Quantities - Exercise 8.2 17, Nov 20 Class 8 NCERT Solutions - Chapter 6 Squares and Square Roots - Exercise 6.1 26, Oct 20 Class 8 RD Sharma Solutions - Chapter 2 Powers - Exercise 2.2 | Set 2 06, Nov 20 Class 8 RD Sharma Solutions - Chapter 1 Rational Numbers - Exercise 1.8 07, Nov 20 Class 8 RD Sharma Solutions - Chapter 3 Squares and Square Roots - Exercise 3.3 | Set 1 27, Feb 21 Class 8 RD Sharma Solutions - Chapter 7 Factorization - Exercise 7.8 | Set 2 09, Dec 20 Mensuration - Volume of Cube, Cuboid, and Cylinder | Class 8 Maths 23, Oct 20 Article Contributed By : GeeksforGeeks Vote for difficulty Current difficulty : Basic Easy Normal Medium Hard Expert Improved By : anjalishukla1859 Article Tags : Class 8 School Learning School Physics Report Issue Writing code in comment? Please use ide.geeksforgeeks.org, generate link and share the link here. Load Comments What's New School Guide: Roadmap For School Students View Details Practice Problems, POTD Streak, Weekly Contests & More! View Details Complete Interview Preparation- Self Paced Course View Details Improve your Coding Skills with PracticeTry It! A-143, 9th Floor, Sovereign Corporate Tower, Sector-136, Noida, Uttar Pradesh - 201305 feedback@geeksforgeeks.org Company About Us Careers In Media Contact Us Privacy Policy Copyright Policy Learn Algorithms Data Structures SDE Cheat Sheet Machine learning CS Subjects Video Tutorials Courses News Top News Technology Work & Career Business Finance Lifestyle Knowledge Languages Python Java CPP Golang C# SQL Kotlin Web Development Web Tutorials Django Tutorial HTML JavaScript Bootstrap ReactJS NodeJS Contribute Write an Article Improve an Article Pick Topics to Write Write Interview Experience Internships Video Internship @geeksforgeeks , Some rights reserved We use cookies to ensure you have the best browsing experience on our website. By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understood our Cookie Policy & Privacy Policy Got It ! Start Your Coding Journey Now! Login Register