https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/cbse-class-10-chemistry-notes/?ref=ghm CBSE Class 10 Chemistry Notes - GeeksforGeeks Skip to content Courses For Working Professionals LIVE DSA Live Classes System Design Java Backend Development Full Stack LIVE Explore More Self-Paced DSA- Self Paced SDE Theory All Development Courses Explore More For Students LIVE Competitive Programming GATE Live Course 2023 Data Science Explore More Self-Paced DSA- Self Paced CIP JAVA / Python / C++ Explore More School Courses School Guide Python Programming Learn To Make Apps Explore more All Courses Tutorials Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Asymptotic Analysis Worst, Average and Best Cases Asymptotic Notations Little o and little omega notations Lower and Upper Bound Theory Analysis of Loops Solving Recurrences Amortized Analysis What does 'Space Complexity' mean ? Pseudo-polynomial Algorithms Polynomial Time Approximation Scheme A Time Complexity Question Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Bitwise Algorithms Randomized Algorithms Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch and Bound All Algorithms Data Structures Arrays Linked List Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings All Data Structures Interview Corner Company Preparation Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competititve Programming Design Patterns System Design Tutorial Multiple Choice Quizzes Languages C C++ Java Python C# JavaScript jQuery SQL PHP Scala Perl Go Language HTML CSS Kotlin ML & Data Science Machine Learning Data Science CS Subjects Mathematics Operating System DBMS Computer Networks Computer Organization and Architecture Theory of Computation Compiler Design Digital Logic Software Engineering GATE GATE Computer Science Notes Last Minute Notes GATE CS Solved Papers GATE CS Original Papers and Official Keys GATE 2021 Dates GATE CS 2021 Syllabus Important Topics for GATE CS Web Technologies HTML CSS JavaScript AngularJS ReactJS NodeJS Bootstrap jQuery PHP Software Designs Software Design Patterns System Design Tutorial School Learning School Programming Mathematics Number System Algebra Trigonometry Statistics Probability Geometry Mensuration Calculus Maths Notes (Class 8-12) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes Class 12 Notes NCERT Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution RD Sharma Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution Physics Notes (Class 8-11) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes Chemistry Notes Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes CS Exams/PSUs ISRO ISRO CS Original Papers and Official Keys ISRO CS Solved Papers ISRO CS Syllabus for Scientist/Engineer Exam UGC NET UGC NET CS Notes Paper II UGC NET CS Notes Paper III UGC NET CS Solved Papers Student Campus Ambassador Program School Ambassador Program Project Geek of the Month Campus Geek of the Month Placement Course Competititve Programming Testimonials Student Chapter Geek on the Top Internship Careers Jobs Apply for Jobs Post a Job Hire with Us Know about Jobathon Jobathon Practice All DSA Problems Problem of the Day Interview Series: Weekly Contests Bi-Wizard Coding: School Contests Contests and Events Practice SDE Sheet Curated DSA Lists Top 50 Array Problems Top 50 String Problems Top 50 Tree Problems Top 50 Graph Problems Top 50 DP Problems Write Come write articles for us and get featured Practice Learn and code with the best industry experts Premium Get access to ad-free content, doubt assistance and more! Jobs Come and find your dream job with us Geeks Digest Quizzes Geeks Campus Gblog Articles IDE Campus Mantri Home Saved Videos Courses GBlog Puzzles What's New ? Change Language Data Structures Algorithms Interview Preparation Topic-wise Practice C++ Java Python Competitive Programming Machine Learning HTML SDE Sheet Puzzles GFG School Projects Related Articles ▲ Related Articles GeeksforGeeks School Number System in Maths Mean, Median and Mode of Grouped Data Types of Internet Protocols Section formula – Internal and External Division | Coordinate Geometry What are Web Services? Algebra HTML Forms Concave and Convex Mirrors - Ray Diagrams, Image Formation, Applications Internet and its Services Statistics Sign Convention for Spherical Mirrors Calculus How to Embed Audio and Video in HTML? File Transfer Protocol (FTP) CBSE Class 10 Maths Notes Theorem - The tangent at any point of a circle is perpendicular to the radius through the point of contact - Circles | Class 10 Maths Refraction of Light through Glass Slab Probability in Maths Step deviation Method for Finding the Mean with Examples Trigonometry Euclid's Division Algorithm - Real Numbers | Class 10 Maths Electric Potential and Potential Difference Variables in Scratch Programming Class 10 RD Sharma Solutions- Chapter 2 Polynomials - Exercise 2.1 | Set 2 Number System and Arithmetic Area of a Triangle - Coordinate Geometry | Class 10 Maths Geometry Chemical Indicators - Definition, Types, Examples Arithmetic Progression - Common difference and Nth term | Class 10 Maths GeeksforGeeks School Number System in Maths Mean, Median and Mode of Grouped Data Types of Internet Protocols Section formula – Internal and External Division | Coordinate Geometry What are Web Services? Algebra HTML Forms Concave and Convex Mirrors - Ray Diagrams, Image Formation, Applications Internet and its Services Statistics Sign Convention for Spherical Mirrors Calculus How to Embed Audio and Video in HTML? File Transfer Protocol (FTP) CBSE Class 10 Maths Notes Theorem - The tangent at any point of a circle is perpendicular to the radius through the point of contact - Circles | Class 10 Maths Refraction of Light through Glass Slab Probability in Maths Step deviation Method for Finding the Mean with Examples Trigonometry Euclid's Division Algorithm - Real Numbers | Class 10 Maths Electric Potential and Potential Difference Variables in Scratch Programming Class 10 RD Sharma Solutions- Chapter 2 Polynomials - Exercise 2.1 | Set 2 Number System and Arithmetic Area of a Triangle - Coordinate Geometry | Class 10 Maths Geometry Chemical Indicators - Definition, Types, Examples Arithmetic Progression - Common difference and Nth term | Class 10 Maths CBSE Class 10 Chemistry Notes View Discussion Improve Article Save Article Like Article Last Updated : 06 Jul, 2022 Class 10 Chemistry Notes by GeeksforGeeks have been developed as per the Latest pattern prescribed by CBSE for Class 10 Boards Exam 2021-22. In these revisions notes, all the important concepts and topics are covered Chapterwise. These notes are more useful as these are prepared according to the revised and reduced CBSE syllabus for Class 10 Science. Here, learners can easily access the chapter-wise notes from the below-mentioned links for quick and effective revision for the CBSE Class 10 Science Board Exam 2021. By the time students come to Class 10, they already have some understanding of the Basic concept of Science. Hence, the below-mentioned Chemistry revision notes for them are built on the concepts they have already learnt in Class 8 and Class 9. Here the important chapters like Carbon and its compounds, Periodic Classification of elements, Acids, Bases, and Salts, etc are presented in an easy manner for thorough learning as well as for quick revision. Chapter 1: Chemical Reactions and Equations Class 10 Science is crucial to understand for all the students to attain good marks in board exams. While students find Biology a little easy subject to understand, Physics and Chemistry always seem tough to understand, and that is why students try to memorize their concepts which is not the right thing. Talking about Class 10 Chemistry, it is easy to learn if you get the idea of the basic concept. Chemical Reactions Types of Chemical Reactions Characteristics of Chemical Reactions Reactant and Products Chemical Equations – Definition, Representation, Types How to Balance Chemical Equations? Writing and Balancing Chemical Equations Difference between Exothermic and Endothermic Reactions What are the Conditions required for a Chemical Reaction? Oxidizing and Reducing Agents Decomposition Reactions in Our Body Effects of Oxidation Reactions in Everyday Life Corrosion and Rancidity What is Rancidity and How to prevent them? Chapter 2: Acids, Bases, and Salts CBSE Class 10 students can get here the notes for Science Chapter 2 – Acids, Bases, and Salts. These notes are entirely according to the latest CBSE Syllabus for Class 10 Science and are best for quick revision of the important topics from the chapter. Each topic has been explained in a simple manner that is quite easy to understand. Students should also attempt the questions given at the end of the revision notes for self-assessment. Acids, Bases, and Salts Chemical Indicators – Definition, Types, Examples Difference between Mineral Acids and Organic Acids Strength of Acids Concentrated and Dilute Acids Properties of Acids – Definition, Examples, Properties, Uses What do All Acids Have in Common? Are all compounds that contain hydrogen not an acid? Uses of Mineral Acids in Industry Difference between Alkalis and Bases What do All Bases Have in Common? Strong and Weak Bases What are Bases? – Definition, Examples, Types, Properties, and Uses How Strong are Acids and Bases on pH Scale? What is a Universal Indicator? Importance of pH in Everyday Life Explain the pH Change As the Cause Of Tooth Decay Importance of pH in Everyday Life What is meant by Family of Salts? Acidic, Basic and Neutral Salts What is Sodium Chloride? – Definition, Preparation, Properties, Uses Caustic Soda, Washing Soda, and Baking Soda – Preparation, Chemical Formula, Properties Bleaching Powder – Definition, Structure, Preparation, Properties Cleansing Action of Soaps and Detergents Water of Crystallization Chapter 3: Metals and Non-Metals Chapter 3 science class 10th notes are one of the most important guides for the students who want to score good marks in their Class 10 science board exam. The content that these revision notes provide has been made by some of the very experienced science teachers. They have prepared these notes strictly keeping in mind the updated CBSE guidelines for class 10 science. Notes of chapter 3 science class 10 metals and non-metals contain some significant topics that have high marks weightage to come in board exams. Metals and Non-Metals – Definition, Properties, Uses, and Applications Exceptions in Physical Properties of Metals and Non-Metals Difference between Metals and Non-Metals Reactivity Series of Metals Uses of Metals and Non-Metals Noble Gases What are the causes of Chemical Bonding? Types of Chemical Bonds Ionic Bonds and Ionic Compounds Covalent Bonds – Definition, Types, Properties, Examples What are Covalent Compounds? Definition, Formation, Properties Properties of Ionic and Covalent Compounds Occurrence of Metals, Minerals, and Ores Extraction of Metals from Ores Concentration of Ore – Definition, Methods of Separation, Examples Conversion of Concentrated Ore into Metal Extraction of Highly Reactive Metals Extraction of Moderately and Less Reactive Metals What is Refining of Metals? What is Corrosion? Corrosion of Metals Rusting of Iron – Explanation, Chemical Reaction, Prevention What is Gold? – Definition, Properties, Uses, and Applications Platinum – Definition, Occurrence, Properties, Applications Alloys – Definition, Composition, Properties, and Uses Chapter 4: Carbon and its Compounds Check CBSE Class 10 Science Quick Revision Notes for Chapter 4 – Carbon and its Compounds. These notes have been prepared according to the revised syllabus. Topics excluded from the reduced syllabus have not been covered in these revision notes. You refer to these notes for the quick revision of the chapter before the upcoming CBSE Class 10 Science Board Exam 2021. You may also solve the questions given at the end of the notes for self-assessment. Carbon – Definition, Properties, Occurrence, Applications Why does Carbon Always Form Covalent Bonds? Why is Carbon considered Tetravalent? Allotropes of Carbon Diamond and Graphite – Structure, Uses, Properties, Applications What is Catenation and Tetravalency? What are Hydrocarbons? Saturated and Unsaturated Hydrocarbons Alkyl Groups and Cyclic Hydrocarbons Functional Groups in Organic Compounds Chemical Properties of Carbon Compounds Hydrogenation of Oils Ethanol – Definition, Properties, Uses, Harmful Effects Ethanoic Acid – Structure, Properties, Uses, Sample Questions Cleansing Action of Soaps and Detergents Difference Between Soaps and Detergents Chapter 5: Periodic Classification of Elements Check CBSE Class 10 Science Notes for Chapter 5 – Periodic Classification of Elements for quick revision before Board Exam 2021. These notes are according to the revised CBSE Class 10 Science Syllabus. All the topics have been explained in a simple way. It will take only about 10-15 minutes to revise the whole chapter with the help of these quick revision notes. Dobereiners Triads – Definition, Types, Limitations Newland’s Law of Octaves Classification of Elements Mendeleev’s Periodic Table Based on Atomic Masses of Elements Merits of Mendeleev’s Periodic Table Anomalies of Mendeleev’s Periodic Table Modern Periodic Law Periodic Table of Elements Characteristics of the Periods and Groups of the Periodic Table Merits of the Modern Periodic Table My Personal Notes arrow_drop_up Save Like Previous CBSE Class 9 Maths Formulas Next CBSE Class 9 Chemistry Notes Recommended Articles Page : CBSE Class 9 Chemistry Notes 09, Jan 22 CBSE Class 8 Chemistry Notes 09, Jan 22 CBSE Class 12 Term 1 Chemistry Answer Key 2021 02, Feb 22 What is Green Chemistry? 20, Sep 21 Importance of Chemistry in Everyday Life 27, Nov 21 CBSE Class 10 Maths Notes 20, Apr 21 CBSE Notes for Class 10 Physics 11, Nov 21 CBSE Class 10 Board Exam Pattern 2021-22 17, Dec 21 CBSE New Assessment Scheme 2021-22 for Class 10, 12 17, Dec 21 CBSE Class 10 Maths Term 1 Exam 2021 Paper Analysis Standard 27, Dec 21 CBSE Class 10 Term 1 Maths Answer Key 2021 Basic Paper 10, Jan 22 CBSE Class 10 Term 1 Science Answer Key 2021-22 10, Jan 22 CBSE Class 12 Exam Pattern 2021-22 18, Feb 22 CBSE Class 10 Maths Formulas 02, Feb 22 Class 10 RD Sharma Solutions - Chapter 11 Constructions - Exercise 11.2 | Set 1 21, May 21 Class 10 RD Sharma Solutions - Chapter 8 Quadratic Equations - Exercise 8.3 | Set 1 08, Mar 21 Class 10 RD Sharma Solutions - Chapter 3 Pair of Linear Equations in Two Variables - Exercise 3.9 17, Apr 21 Class 10 RD Sharma Solutions - Chapter 9 Arithmetic Progressions - Exercise 9.6 | Set 3 01, Apr 21 Class 10 NCERT Solutions- Chapter 3 Pair of Linear Equations in Two Variables - Exercise 3.2 26, Feb 21 Class 10 RD Sharma Solutions - Chapter 7 Statistics - Exercise 7.5 | Set 2 01, Mar 21 Class 10 RD Sharma Solutions - Chapter 12 Some Applications of Trigonometry - Exercise 12.1 | Set 3 11, May 21 Theorem - The lengths of tangents drawn from an external point to a circle are equal - Circles | Class 10 Maths 24, Oct 20 Class 10 NCERT Solutions- Chapter 12 Areas Related to Circles - Exercise 12.3 | Set 2 21, Jan 21 Class 10 NCERT Solutions - Chapter 3 Pair of Linear Equations in Two Variables - Exercise 3.3 01, Dec 20 Article Contributed By : GeeksforGeeks Vote for difficulty Easy Normal Medium Hard Expert Improved By : anjalishukla1859 Article Tags : Class 10 School Chemistry School Learning Report Issue Writing code in comment? Please use ide.geeksforgeeks.org, generate link and share the link here. Load Comments What's New School Guide: Roadmap For School Students View Details Practice Problems, POTD Streak, Weekly Contests & More! View Details Complete Interview Preparation- Self Paced Course View Details Improve your Coding Skills with PracticeTry It! A-143, 9th Floor, Sovereign Corporate Tower, Sector-136, Noida, Uttar Pradesh - 201305 feedback@geeksforgeeks.org Company About Us Careers In Media Contact Us Privacy Policy Copyright Policy Learn Algorithms Data Structures SDE Cheat Sheet Machine learning CS Subjects Video Tutorials Courses News Top News Technology Work & Career Business Finance Lifestyle Knowledge Languages Python Java CPP Golang C# SQL Kotlin Web Development Web Tutorials Django Tutorial HTML JavaScript Bootstrap ReactJS NodeJS Contribute Write an Article Improve an Article Pick Topics to Write Write Interview Experience Internships Video Internship @geeksforgeeks , Some rights reserved We use cookies to ensure you have the best browsing experience on our website. By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understood our Cookie Policy & Privacy Policy Got It ! Start Your Coding Journey Now! Login Register