https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/cbse-class-8-maths-notes/?ref=ghm CBSE Class 8 Maths Notes - GeeksforGeeks Skip to content Courses For Working Professionals LIVE DSA Live Classes System Design Java Backend Development Full Stack LIVE Explore More Self-Paced DSA- Self Paced SDE Theory All Development Courses Explore More For Students LIVE Competitive Programming GATE Live Course 2023 Data Science Explore More Self-Paced DSA- Self Paced CIP JAVA / Python / C++ Explore More School Courses School Guide Python Programming Learn To Make Apps Explore more All Courses Tutorials Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Asymptotic Analysis Worst, Average and Best Cases Asymptotic Notations Little o and little omega notations Lower and Upper Bound Theory Analysis of Loops Solving Recurrences Amortized Analysis What does 'Space Complexity' mean ? Pseudo-polynomial Algorithms Polynomial Time Approximation Scheme A Time Complexity Question Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Bitwise Algorithms Randomized Algorithms Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch and Bound All Algorithms Data Structures Arrays Linked List Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings All Data Structures Interview Corner Company Preparation Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competititve Programming Design Patterns System Design Tutorial Multiple Choice Quizzes Languages C C++ Java Python C# JavaScript jQuery SQL PHP Scala Perl Go Language HTML CSS Kotlin ML & Data Science Machine Learning Data Science CS Subjects Mathematics Operating System DBMS Computer Networks Computer Organization and Architecture Theory of Computation Compiler Design Digital Logic Software Engineering GATE GATE Computer Science Notes Last Minute Notes GATE CS Solved Papers GATE CS Original Papers and Official Keys GATE 2021 Dates GATE CS 2021 Syllabus Important Topics for GATE CS Web Technologies HTML CSS JavaScript AngularJS ReactJS NodeJS Bootstrap jQuery PHP Software Designs Software Design Patterns System Design Tutorial School Learning School Programming Mathematics Number System Algebra Trigonometry Statistics Probability Geometry Mensuration Calculus Maths Notes (Class 8-12) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes Class 12 Notes NCERT Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution RD Sharma Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution Physics Notes (Class 8-11) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes Chemistry Notes Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes CS Exams/PSUs ISRO ISRO CS Original Papers and Official Keys ISRO CS Solved Papers ISRO CS Syllabus for Scientist/Engineer Exam UGC NET UGC NET CS Notes Paper II UGC NET CS Notes Paper III UGC NET CS Solved Papers Student Campus Ambassador Program School Ambassador Program Project Geek of the Month Campus Geek of the Month Placement Course Competititve Programming Testimonials Student Chapter Geek on the Top Internship Careers Jobs Apply for Jobs Post a Job Hire with Us Know about Jobathon Jobathon Practice All DSA Problems Problem of the Day Interview Series: Weekly Contests Bi-Wizard Coding: School Contests Contests and Events Practice SDE Sheet Curated DSA Lists Top 50 Array Problems Top 50 String Problems Top 50 Tree Problems Top 50 Graph Problems Top 50 DP Problems Write Come write articles for us and get featured Practice Learn and code with the best industry experts Premium Get access to ad-free content, doubt assistance and more! Jobs Come and find your dream job with us Geeks Digest Quizzes Geeks Campus Gblog Articles IDE Campus Mantri Home Saved Videos Courses GBlog Puzzles What's New ? Change Language Data Structures Algorithms Interview Preparation Topic-wise Practice C++ Java Python Competitive Programming Machine Learning HTML SDE Sheet Puzzles GFG School Projects Related Articles ▲ Related Articles CBSE Class 8 Maths Notes Linear Equations in One Variable Distance formula – Coordinate Geometry | Class 10 Maths Introduction to Mensuration Arithmetic Progression – Common difference and Nth term | Class 10 Maths Arithmetic Progression – Sum of First n Terms | Class 10 Maths General and Middle Terms – Binomial Theorem – Class 11 Maths Theorem – The lengths of tangents drawn from an external point to a circle are equal – Circles | Class 10 Maths Pythagoras Theorem and its Converse – Triangles | Class 10 Maths Section formula – Internal and External Division | Coordinate Geometry Algebraic Expressions and Identities | Class 8 Maths Area of a Triangle – Coordinate Geometry | Class 10 Maths Types of Quadrilaterals – Rectangle, Square, Rhombus, Parallelogram | Class 8 Maths Solve Linear Equations with Variable on both Sides Class 9 RD Sharma Solutions – Chapter 4 Algebraic Identities- Exercise 4.1 | Set 1 Class 9 RD Sharma Solutions – Chapter 4 Algebraic Identities- Exercise 4.1 | Set 2 Class 9 RD Sharma Solutions – Chapter 4 Algebraic Identities- Exercise 4.3 | Set 1 Class 9 RD Sharma Solutions – Chapter 4 Algebraic Identities- Exercise 4.3 | Set 2 Class 9 RD Sharma Solutions – Chapter 4 Algebraic Identities- Exercise 4.4 CBSE Class 9 Maths Notes NCERT Solutions for Class 9 Maths CBSE Class 9 Maths Formulas Factorization How to Call or Consume External API in Spring Boot? Top 10 Fastest Programming Languages How to Install and Use Metamask on Google Chrome? Re-rendering Components in ReactJS SQL Query to Insert Multiple Rows Difference between em and rem units in CSS Difference Between Local Storage, Session Storage And Cookies CBSE Class 8 Maths Notes Linear Equations in One Variable Distance formula – Coordinate Geometry | Class 10 Maths Introduction to Mensuration Arithmetic Progression – Common difference and Nth term | Class 10 Maths Arithmetic Progression – Sum of First n Terms | Class 10 Maths General and Middle Terms – Binomial Theorem – Class 11 Maths Theorem – The lengths of tangents drawn from an external point to a circle are equal – Circles | Class 10 Maths Pythagoras Theorem and its Converse – Triangles | Class 10 Maths Section formula – Internal and External Division | Coordinate Geometry Algebraic Expressions and Identities | Class 8 Maths Area of a Triangle – Coordinate Geometry | Class 10 Maths Types of Quadrilaterals – Rectangle, Square, Rhombus, Parallelogram | Class 8 Maths Solve Linear Equations with Variable on both Sides Class 9 RD Sharma Solutions – Chapter 4 Algebraic Identities- Exercise 4.1 | Set 1 Class 9 RD Sharma Solutions – Chapter 4 Algebraic Identities- Exercise 4.1 | Set 2 Class 9 RD Sharma Solutions – Chapter 4 Algebraic Identities- Exercise 4.3 | Set 1 Class 9 RD Sharma Solutions – Chapter 4 Algebraic Identities- Exercise 4.3 | Set 2 Class 9 RD Sharma Solutions – Chapter 4 Algebraic Identities- Exercise 4.4 CBSE Class 9 Maths Notes NCERT Solutions for Class 9 Maths CBSE Class 9 Maths Formulas Factorization How to Call or Consume External API in Spring Boot? Top 10 Fastest Programming Languages How to Install and Use Metamask on Google Chrome? Re-rendering Components in ReactJS SQL Query to Insert Multiple Rows Difference between em and rem units in CSS Difference Between Local Storage, Session Storage And Cookies CBSE Class 8 Maths Notes View Discussion Improve Article Save Article Like Article Difficulty Level : Easy Last Updated : 04 Jul, 2022 Class 8 is that turning point in the life of students when subjects start to get difficult and it becomes harder for students to cope. It’s important that students learn the basic foundation of subjects like Maths from a young age and Class 8 seems the best time to start. CBSE students find it hard to understand NCERT Maths problems and finding solutions that are easy to understand is as hard as practically doing them. This is where GeeksforGeeks put its foot down to create the easy-to-understand CBSE Class 8 Maths Notes that are well prepared for quick revision of all the important concepts that will help the students to score good marks in board exams. These CBSE notes will help students to understand the tough maths problems without any worries. These class 8th maths revision notes are prepared in an order to provide good knowledge of all the chapters based on the updated syllabus for Class 8th provided by the CBSE in their NCERT textbooks. These notes are prepared by our experts and are available for free at GeeksforGeeks. CBSE Class 8 Maths Notes cover all the important chapters given in the revised NCERT textbooks that include some Important topics of Class 8 Maths like Rational Numbers, Direct and Inverse proportions, Algebraic Expressions and Identities, Practical Geometry, Polygons, etc. Class 8 Maths Notes cover some more important topics like Cubes and Cube roots, Linear equations, Playing with numbers, Surface area, and Volumes from Class 8 Maths NCERT. Our experts have also covered Class 8 Maths Solutions like NCERT Solutions for Class 8, and RD Sharma Solutions for Class 8. To improve the basic knowledge of students, we have also covered 1500+ Most asked Questions of Mathematics, Chapterwise Important Formulas, and many more based on the new Class 8th CBSE curriculum. These notes and other study materials provide a helping hand for students to prepare for their Final Examinations. CBSE Class 8 Maths Topic-wise Revision Notes All the Chapters covered in Class 8 Maths NCERT textbooks are listed below. Here is the detailed chapter-wise information about the Class 8 Maths syllabus provided by CBSE. Additionally, this also contains all the major topics that have been covered in Class 8 Maths NCERT textbooks and Class 8 CBSE Maths Syllabus. Chapter 1: Rational Numbers Any number that can be described in p/q form where q is not equal to zero is called a rational number. A rational number is a kind of real number. Or in other words, Any fraction with non-zero denominators is a rational number. Examples of rational numbers are 1/2, 1/5, 3/4, and so on. The number “0” is also a rational number, as we can define it in many forms such as 0/1, 0/2, 0/3, etc. But, 1/0, 2/0, 3/0, etc. are not rational, since they give us infinite values. In this chapter, you will learn more about Rational Numbers, the representation of rational numbers on the number line, and rational numbers between two rational numbers. To represent rational numbers on a number line, we need to streamline and write in the decimal form first. Important formulas and Properties used in Class 8 Maths Chapter 1- Rational Numbers, For any rational numbers a, b and c, Multiplicative Inverse: (a ⁄ b) × (b/a) = 1. Additive Inverse: a + (-a) = (-a) + a = 0. Closure Property – Addition: a + b is also a rational number. Closure Property – Multiplication: a × b is also a rational number. Commutative Property – Addition: a + b = b + a. Commutative Property – Multiplication: (a × b) = (b × a). Associative Property – Addition: (a + b) + c = a + (b + c). Associative Property – Multiplication: (a x b) x c = a x (b x c). Distributive Property: a × (b + c) = (a × b) +( a × c). Want to know more about these topics??? We have covered them here: Rational Numbers Representation of rational numbers on the number line Rational Numbers Between Two Rational Numbers More resources for CBSE Class 8 Maths Chapter 1 Class 8 NCERT Solutions Maths Chapter 1 Class 8 RD Sharma Solutions Rational Numbers All important formulas for Chapter 1 Chapter 2: Linear Equations in One Variable The linear equation in one variable is an expression that is denoted as ax+b = 0, where a and b are any two integers, and x is a variable and consists of only one solution. A linear equation is a simple technique to convey a mathematical proposition. Any variable or symbol can be used to represent unknown values, however, in most cases, a variable ‘x’ is used to represent the unknown number in a linear equation with only one variable. A linear equation can be solved using a variety of basic approaches. To acquire the final value of the unknown quantity, the variables are isolated on one side of the equation and the constants are isolated on the other. An algebraic equation is an equality involving variables. The expression on the left of equality is called LHS (Left Hand Side) and on the right is called RHS (Right Hand Side). Some methods to solve algebraic equations like addition or subtraction and multiplication or division and transposing can be learned in this chapter. Other significant methods to solve linear equations are, solving equations having variables on both sides and reducing equations to a simpler form. Important points covered in Class 8 Maths Chapter 2- Linear Equations in One Variable A linear equation is an algebraic equation in which each term is either a constant or the product of a constant and a variable. A simple example of a linear equation with only one variable, x, may be written in the form: ax + b = 0 where a and b are constants and a ≠ 0. In this chapter, you’ll be introduced to these topics: Linear Equations in One Variable Solve Linear Equations with Variable on both Sides Solving Equations which have Linear Expressions on one Side and Numbers on the other Side Reducing Equations to Simpler Form More about CBSE Class 8 Maths Chapter 2 Class 8 NCERT Solutions Maths Chapter 2 Class 8 RD Sharma Solutions Linear Equations in One Variable All important formulas for Chapter 2 Chapter 3: Understanding Quadrilaterals Geometrically, a quadrilateral is defined as a closed, 2-D shape that has four linear sides. The different types of quadrilaterals according to their number of edges and vertices are square, rectangle, parallelogram, trapezium, kite, and rhombus. Chapter 3 of CBSE Class 8 Maths Notes covers a wide range of characteristics and kinds of quadrilaterals. However, the solutions and explanations provided in these answers aid in the learning process by ensuring that students shave a solid geometrical basis. Special quadrilaterals such as squares, rectangles, parallelograms, kites, and rhombuses are explained in detail in Class 8th math notes. Some important theorems can also be learned in this chapter like the Angle sum property and the Exterior angle property. Another section covered in this chapter is Quadrilaterals. Like Polygons, Quadrilateral are also classified on the basis of the nature of their sides and angle. Examples of Quadrilaterals are Trapezium, Kite, Parallelogram, etc. Major points and formulas can be studied in Class 8 Maths Chapter 3- Understanding Quadrilaterals, A simple closed curve made only of line segments is called a Polygon. Polygons are classified based on various factors like the number of their sides or vertices, part of the diagonals in exteriors, and the size and angle between the vertices. Some examples of Polygons are Triangle, Quadrilateral, Pentagon, Hexagon, Heptagon, Octagon, Decagon, … , n-gon, Convex Polygons, concave Polygons, regular Polygons, Irregular Polygons, etc. Angle Sum Property: This property states that the sum of all angles of a quadrilateral is 360°. Sum of the Measures of the Exterior Angles of a Polygon: Regardless of the number of sides in the polygons, the total of the measurements of the exterior angles equals 360 degrees. The parallelogram is the four-sided geometrical figure in which the pair of two opposite sides of it are parallel to each other. The main types of parallelograms are, Rhombus, rectangle, square, etc. In this chapter, you’ll be introduced to these topics: Polygons and its types Measures of the Exterior Angles of a Polygon Rectangle, Square, Rhombus, Parallelogram Some Special Parallelograms More about CBSE Class 8 Maths Chapter 3 Class 8 NCERT Solutions Maths Chapter 3 Class 8 RD Sharma Solutions Understanding Quadrilaterals Chapter 1, Chapter 2 and Chapter 3 All important formulas for Chapter 3 Chapter 4: Practical Geometry This is the chapter where students can gain extra marks if they understand the detailed explanations. Chapter 4 of CBSE Class 8 Maths Notes covers practical geometry which simply means constructing geometrical figures like squares, triangles, quadrilaterals, etc. using a scale, and compass when different parameters of it are known. The main concept that is learned in this chapter is the Construction of a Quadrilateral under different cases. These cases depend on the given factors of the quadrilateral to determine the unknown one. Hence, the major points covered in Class 8 Maths Chapter 4- Practical Geometry, Geometry is a branch of mathematics that deals with the problems of size, shape, volume, locations, and positions of the figures, and the properties of space. Geometry gives us a practical way of working with Volumes and areas of the figures. To construct a quadrilateral uniquely, five measurements are required. A quadrilateral can be constructed uniquely if the lengths of its four sides and a diagonal are given. A quadrilateral can be constructed uniquely if its two diagonals and three sides are known. A quadrilateral can be constructed uniquely if its two adjacent sides and three angles are known. A quadrilateral can be constructed uniquely if its three sides and two included angles are given. In this chapter, you’ll be introduced to only 1 topic: Construction of a Quadrilateral More about CBSE Class 8 Maths Chapter 4 Class 8 NCERT Solutions Maths Chapter 4 Class 8 RD Sharma Solutions Practical Geometry All important formulas for Chapter 4 Chapter 5: Data Handling If you want to understand What is Data Handling? and How does it work? and Why it’s needed? then read chapter 5 of CBSE Class 8 Maths Notes. Data handling refers to the process of collecting, organizing, and presenting any raw information. Data handling is an important maths concept that ensures the integrity of the study data. Whatever subject we choose, we have knowledge in the form of a numerical figure. Every value of this kind is referred to as an observation. Typically, data refers to the collection of all observations. in a way that is helpful to others like in graphs or charts, etc. The sub-topics covered in this chapter are Organising Data, Grouping Data, Bars with a difference, Circle Graph or Pie Chart, and Chance And Probability. In the Class 8 syllabus, Data Handling also includes some basic concepts of probability like Equally likely Outcomes, Linking chance to Probability, Outcomes as events, and some real-life examples of Chances and Probability. Some Important methods are used to organize and represent Data in Class 8 Maths Chapter 5- Data Handling, Graphical representation of data: Pictograph: Pictorial representation of data using symbols. Bar Graph: A display of information using bars of uniform width, their heights proportional to the respective values. Double Bar Graph: A bar graph showing two sets of data simultaneously. It is useful for the comparison of the data. Histogram: a graphical representation of frequency distribution in the form of rectangles with class intervals as bases and heights proportional to corresponding frequencies such that there is no gap between any successive rectangles. Circle Graph or Pie Chart: A pictorial representation of the numerical data in the form of sectors of a circle such that area of each sector is proportional to the magnitude of the data represented by the sector. Probability = Number of outcomes making up an event / Total number of outcomes, if the outcomes are equally likely. In this chapter, you’ll be introduced to these topics: Data Handling Organizing Data Grouping Data Pie Chart Chance and Probability More about CBSE Class 8 Maths Chapter 5 Class 8 NCERT Solutions Maths Chapter 5 Class 8 RD Sharma Solutions Data Handling Chapter 1, Chapter 2, Chapter 3 and Chapter 4 All important formulas for Chapter 5 Chapter 6: Squares and Square Roots Chapter 6 of CBSE Class 8 Maths Notes covers the concepts of squares and square roots that are opposite to each other. As the squares are used for the numbers come after multiplying the number by itself. However, the square root of a number is the value obtained when multiplied by itself to give the original value. For instance, the square of 5 is 25 and the square root of 25 is 5. This chapter is divided into two parts: Squares and Square roots. The first section of this chapter consists of the Properties of Square Numbers, Interesting Patterns, and Finding the square of a number, also the Pythagorean triplets. Another section covered in this chapter is Square Roots, which explains Finding square roots through different methods like Repeated Subtraction, Prime Factorization, and Division Method. This section not only discusses the Square Roots of simple numbers but even the methods to Determine the square roots of Decimals and Estimating Square Roots. Important points learned in Class 8 Maths Chapter 6- Squares and Square Roots, If q is a natural number such that p2= q then, √q = p and –p Some of the important properties of Squares and Square roots are listed below: There are 2n non-perfect square numbers between n2 and (n+1)2. If a perfect square is of n digits then its square root will have n/2 digits if n is even, or (n+1)/2, if n is odd. In this chapter, you’ll be introduced to these topics: Squares and Square Roots How to Find Square Root of a Number? More about CBSE Class 8 Maths Chapter 6 Class 8 NCERT Solutions Maths Chapter 6 Class 8 RD Sharma Solutions Squares and Square Roots All important formulas for Chapter 6 Chapter 7: Cubes and Cube roots Chapter 7 of CBSE Class 8 Maths Notes again talks about the concepts of cubes and cube roots opposite to each other. As the cubes are used for the numbers come after multiplying the number by itself thrice. However, the cube root of a number is the value obtained when multiplied by itself thrice to give the original value. For instance, the cube of 5 is 125 and the cube root of 125 is 5. This chapter thus provides the introduction to Cubes, Some interesting patterns to find cubes, Smallest multiple that is a perfect cube. Also, the introduction to concepts of Cube Roots, the methods to determine the Cube roots through the prime factorization method, and the Cube root of a cube number can also be learned in this chapter. Important concepts learned in Class 8 Maths Chapter 7- Cubes and Cube roots, Consider any number m, which can be expressed as the product of any number three times as m = n × n × n = n3. n3 is so known as the cube of n and m is now known as cube root of n: 3√m = n Method of finding a Cube Root: There are two different ways to determine the cube root of a number, that are: Prime Factorization Method Estimation Method Here, we’ll solely focus on: Cubes and Cube Roots More about CBSE Class 8 Maths Chapter 7 Class 8 NCERT Solutions Maths Chapter 7 Class 8 RD Sharma Solutions Cubes and Cube roots All important formulas for Chapter 7 Chapter 8: Comparing Quantities In chapter 8 of CBSE Class 8 Maths Notes, we’ll cover Comparing quantities which is the most basic everyday-life application of Mathematics that deals with quantities. Students can understand how the market works at a young age. This includes the concepts like percentage, ratio, market price, selling price, cost price, discount and discount price, profit or loss, interest, etc. The sub-topics in this chapter are: Ratios and Percentages, Finding the Increase or Decrease Percentage and Finding Discounts. Also, the Estimation in percentages, Prices Related To Buying And Selling (Profit And Loss), and Finding cost price/selling price, are thoroughly explained in this chapter. Students can also learn Compound Interest along with deducing a Formula for Compound Interest, Rate Compounded Annually or Half Yearly (Semi-Annually), and Applications of Compound Interest formulas in Comparing Quantities. Important formulas covered in Class 8 Maths Chapter 8- Comparing Quantities, Profit = Selling price – Cost price Loss = Cost price – Selling price If SP > CP, then it is profit. If SP = CP, then it is neither profit nor loss. If CP > SP, then it is loss. Discount = Marked Price – Sale Price Discount % = Discount × 100 / MP Profit Percentage = (Profit / Cost Price) × 100 Loss Percentage = (Loss / Cost Price) × 100 Percentage Increased = Change in Value / Original Value Simple Interest = ( Principal × Rate × Time )/100 Compound Interest Formula = Amount – Principal Sales tax or VAT = Tax of Selling price = (Cost Price × Rate of Sales Tax) / 100 Billing Amount = Selling price + VAT In this chapter, you’ll be introduced to these topics: Ratios and Percentages Percent Change & Discounts Prices Related to Buying and Selling (Profit and Loss) Compound Interest Compound Interest Formula Sales Tax, Value Added Tax, and Goods and Services Tax More about CBSE Class 8 Maths Chapter 8 Class 8 NCERT Solutions Maths Chapter 8 Class 8 RD Sharma Solutions Comparing Quantities Chapter 1, Chapter 2, and Chapter 3 All important formulas for Chapter 8 Chapter 9: Algebraic Expressions and Identities Chapter 9 – Algebraic Expressions and Identities provides information about the basics of monomials, binomials, and polynomials in an algebraic expression. Here we’ll learn about some basic terminologies like Expressions, Terms, Factors, Coefficients, Monomials, Binomials, and Polynomials. Along with these basics operations like Addition, Subtraction, and Multiplication of Algebraic Expressions are covered in this chapter. Standard Identities, and Applying Identities from this chapter are the most important and scoring sections of this chapter. Important formulas covered in Class 8 Maths Chapter 9- Algebraic Expressions and Identities are, (a + b)2 = a2 + 2ab + b2 (a – b)2 = a2 – 2ab + b2 (a + b) (a – b) = a2 – b2 (x + a) (x + b) = x2 + (a + b)x + ab (x + a) (x – b) = x2 + (a – b)x – ab (x – a) (x + b) = x2 + (b – a)x – ab (x – a) (x – b) = x2 – (a + b)x + ab (a + b)3 = a3 + b3 + 3ab(a + b) (a – b)3 = a3 – b3 – 3ab(a – b) In this chapter, you’ll be introduced to these topics: Algebraic expressions Like and Unlike Algebraic Terms Mathematical Operations on Algebraic Expressions Types of Polynomials Multiplying Polynomials Standard Algebraic Identities More about CBSE Class 8 Maths Chapter 9 Class 8 NCERT Solutions Maths Chapter 9 Class 8 RD Sharma Solutions Chapter 1 and Chapter 2 All important formulas for Chapter 9 Chapter 10: Visualising Solid Shapes Visualizing Solid Shapes is a concept that provides the understanding of different solids shapes when visualized in different dimensions and various terms used to describe their properties. This is one of the easiest scoring chapters in Class 8 maths. Thus, this chapter helps to understand the interesting topics related to solid shapes. These topics are Views of 3D-Shapes, explanation of Faces, Edges, and Vertices, and Regular polyhedrons. However, Euler’s formula is the most important topic in this chapter. Important formula that is covered in the Class 8 Maths Chapter 10- Visualising Solid Shapes, A polyhedron has a certain number of planar faces, edges, and vertices that meet the formula: F + V – E = 2 where F is the number of faces. The letters V and E stand for the number of vertices and edges, respectively. The above formula is called as Euler’s formula. In this chapter, you’ll be introduced to these topics: Visualizing Solid Shapes Mapping Space Around Us More about CBSE Class 8 Maths Chapter 10 Class 8 NCERT Solutions Maths Chapter 10 Class 8 RD Sharma Solutions Visualising Solid Shapes All important formulas for Chapter 10 Chapter 11: Mensuration Mensuration is the chapter that deals with the measurement or the calculations related to determining the area, perimeter, volume of various geometrical figures like squares, cubes, rectangles, cuboids, cylinders, and triangles, etc. The chapter consists of the calculation of area and volume for trapezium, quadrilateral, polygons, cube, cuboid, etc., by understanding the formulas. Thus, the major topics explained in this chapter are only related to Surface areas and Volumes. The area of the Trapezium, some general quadrilaterals, polygons, etc are covered in the first section. While the surface areas and volumes of different solid shapes like cubes, cuboids, cones, etc are covered in the next section of the chapter. Here is the list of major formulas covered in Class 8 Maths Chapter 11- Mensuration, Perimeter: The length of the outline of any simple closed figure is known as the perimeter. Perimeter of a rectangle = 2 × (l + b) units. Perimeter of a square = 4 × side unit. Perimeter of a circle is called its circumference. Therefore, the circumference of a circle is 2 π r. Perimeter of a Parallelogram = 2(Base + Height) Perimeter of a Triangle = a + b + c (where a, b and c are the side lengths) Perimeter of a Trapezium = a + b + c + d (where a, b, c, d are the sides of a trapezoid) Perimeter of a Kite = 2a + 2b (where a is the length of the first pair and b is the length of the second pair) Perimeter of a Rhombus = 4 × side Perimeter of a Hexagon = 6 × side Curved Surface Area of a Cone = 1 /2 × l × 2πr = πrl, where ‘r’ is its base radius and ‘l’ its slant height. ‘l’ = √(r2 + h2) Volume of a Cuboid = Base Area × Height = Length × Breadth × Height Volume of a Cone = (1 / 3)πr2h Volume of a Sphere = (4/3) π r3 Volume of a Hemisphere = (2/3) πr3 In this chapter, you’ll be introduced to these topics: Introduction to Mensuration Area of Trapezium Area of Polygons Area of General Quadrilateral Surface Area of Cube, Cuboid, and Cylinder Volume of Cube, Cuboid, and Cylinder Volume and Capacity More about CBSE Class 8 Maths Chapter 11 Class 8 NCERT Solutions Maths Chapter 11 Class 8 RD Sharma Solutions Mensuration Chapter 1, Chapter 2 and Chapter 3 All important formulas for Chapter 11 Chapter 12: Exponents and Powers The chapter Exponents and powers cover the primary concepts such as laws of exponents and their applications. The chapter deals with the problems using the applications of power to write large numbers in exponents and vice-versa. In this chapter, we will learn to calculate negative exponents and negative power values. The sub-topics in this chapter explained are Powers with Negative Exponents, Laws of Exponents along with the use of Exponents to Express small numbers in Standard Form. Important Laws covered in Class 8 Maths Chapter 12- Exponents and Powers are, Law of Product: am × an = am + n Law of Quotient: am/an = am – n Law of Zero Exponent: a0 = 1 Law of Negative Exponent: a-m = 1/am Law of Power of a Power: (am)n = amn Law of Power of a Product: (ab)n = ambm Law of Power of a Quotient: (a/b)m = am/bm In this chapter, you’ll be introduced to these topics: Negative Exponents Laws of Exponents & Use of Exponents to Express Small Numbers in Standard Form More about CBSE Class 8 Maths Chapter 12: Class 8 NCERT Solutions Maths Chapter 12 Class 8 RD Sharma Solutions Powers All important formulas for Chapter 12 Chapter 13: Direct and Inverse Proportions This chapter gives a detailed explanation of inverse and direct proportions through word problems. Any two quantities a and b can be said to be in direct proportion if they variate (increase or decrease) together with each other in such a way that the ratio of their corresponding values remains the same. However, two quantities x and y are said to be in inverse proportion if an increase in x causes a proportional decrease in y (and vice-versa) in such a manner that the product of their corresponding values remains constant. Major points covered in Class 8 Maths Chapter 13- Direct and Inverse Proportions, Proportionality is represented by the symbol ∝. For example, if we claim that p is proportional to q, this implies p ∝ q and if we say that p is inversely proportional to q, then this implies “p∝1/q.” Direct Proportion: If a/b = k, where k is any positive number, then a and b are said to be in direct proportion. e.g. If the number of things bought increases, then the total cost of purchase also increases. Inverse Proportion: If xy = k, then x and y are said to vary inversely. e.g. If the number of people increases, the time is taken to finish the food decreases. Or If the speed will increase the time required to cover a given distance will decrease. In this chapter, we’re solely focusing on: Direct and Inverse Proportions More about CBSE Class 8 Maths Chapter 13 Class 8 NCERT Solutions Maths Chapter 13 Class 8 RD Sharma Solutions Direct and Inverse Proportions Chapter 1 and Chapter 2 All important formulas for Chapter 13 Chapter 14: Factorisation This chapter comprises the problems on the factors of natural numbers and algebraic expressions, factorization by regrouping terms, factorization using identities, and division of algebraic expressions. Major topics and subtopics that can be understood in-depth are, Factors and How to do Factorisation? Some common methods for performing factorization are, Factorisation by regrouping terms, Factorisation using identities, and Factors of the form (x+a) (x+b) is also part of this chapter. Most important and scoring topic in this unit is the Division of Algebraic Expressions- monomial by another monomial, polynomial by a monomial. Thus, this will help students to understand all about factorization. Important formulas explained in Class 8 Maths Chapter 14- Factorisation, A number of factorable expressions are of the form or may be factored into the form: a2 + 2ab + b2, a2 – 2ab + b2, a2 – b2 and x2 + (a + b)x + ab. These expressions can be easily factorized using below mentioned identities as, a2 + 2ab + b2 = (a + b)2 a2 – 2ab + b2 = (a – b)2 a2 – b2 = (a + b) (a – b) x2 + (a + b)x + ab = (x + a)(x + b) We have divisions of algebraic expressions in the case of divisions of algebraic expressions that we discussed in this chapter. Dividend = Divisor × Quotient or Dividend = Divisor × Quotient + Remainder In this chapter, you’ll be introduced to these topics: Introduction to factorization Division of Algebraic Expressions More about CBSE Class 8 Maths Chapter 14 Class 8 NCERT Solutions Maths Chapter 14 Class 8 RD Sharma Solutions Factorization All important formulas for Chapter 14 Chapter 15: Introduction to Graphs This chapter is all about the basic understanding of the graphs, kinds of graphs, etc. Lately, this chapter provided an emphasis on the construction of different types of graphs and their applications. Introduction to graphs like – Bar Graph, Pie Graph, Histogram, Line Graph, and Linear Graphs are some important terms that are majorly covered in this chapter. Important terms that are discussed in Class 8 Maths Chapter 15- Introduction to Graphs, Bar Graph: When comparing categories, the bar graph is the most appropriate tool. Pie charts: The pie charts are the best way to compare sections of a whole. Histogram: A histogram may be used to make data simpler to interpret when it is presented in intervals. Line Graph: A line graph will be beneficial in the situation of data that changes constantly over time. CBSE Class 8 Maths Topicwise Notes Chapter 15 Introduction to Graphs Linear Graphs More about CBSE Class 8 Maths Chapter 15 Class 8 NCERT Solutions Maths Chapter 15 Class 8 RD Sharma Solutions Introduction to Graphs All important formulas for Chapter 15 Chapter 16: Playing with Numbers All the above-mentioned chapters basically helped to learn about various kinds of numbers and their different properties likewise in this chapter the concept of numbers is discussed in a more general way. Numbers in General Form, Games with Numbers, and Letters for Digits are covered in this chapter. However, Divisibility tests like Divisibility by 10, Divisibility by 5, Divisibility by 7, Divisibility by 9, and 3 are also covered. Here is the list of some important points that are covered in Class 8 Maths Chapter 16- Playing with Numbers, Divisibility by 2: A number is divisible by 2 when its one’s digit is 0, 2, 4, 6 or 8. Divisibility by 3: A number is divisible by 3 when the sum of its digits is divisible by 3. Divisibility by 4: A number is divisible by 4 when the number formed by its last two digits is divisible by 4. Divisibility by 5: A number is divisible by 5 when its ones digit is 0 or 5. Divisibility by 6: A number is divisible by 6 when it is divisible by both 2 and 3. Divisibility by 9: A number is divisible by 9 when the sum of its digits is divisible by 9. Divisibility by 10: A number is divisible by 10 when its one digit is 0. Divisibility by 11: A number is divisible by 11 when the difference of the sum of its digits in odd places and the sum of its digits in even places is either o or a multiple of 11. In this chapter, you’ll be introduced to these topics: Game of Numbers Letters for Digits Divisibility Rules Playing with Numbers More about CBSE Class 8 Maths Chapter 16: Class 8 NCERT Solutions Maths Chapter 16 Class 8 RD Sharma Solutions Playing with Numbers All important formulas for Chapter 16 Important Resources for CBSE Class 8th provided by GeeksforGeeks:- NCERT Solutions Maths Class 8 RD Sharma Solutions Maths Class 8 CBSE Class 8 Maths Formulas CBSE Physics Class 8 Notes CBSE Class 8 Chemistry Notes Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) Question 1: How to Score Good Marks in CBSE Class 8th Maths? Answer: Getting good grades in Class 8 Math is not hard. You may become one of the best scores in your class if you implement the appropriate approach and pick the right study materials. The most important aspect of maths performance is practise. You should prioritise completing NCERT in the test prep. You should begin studying your test syllabus after completing NCERT. Question 2: What is a rational number in CBSE Class 8 Maths? Answer: Any number that can be written in the form of ab, where, a and b are integers (positive or negative number) and b is not equal to zero can be called a rational number. For example, -21, 76 etc. Question 3: What are some most important chapters in maths class 8? Answer: The important chapters in maths class 8 for exams as well as for further classes are- Comparing Quantities, Algebraic identities and expressions, Mensuration, Exponents and Powers, and Factorisation. Question 4: How to remember math formulas easily? Answer: Some of the best tips to memorize the maths formulas are listed below: Develop an interest in the concept you are studying. Because it is always easier for a student to understand and memorize something that interests you. While learning these concepts relate them to visuals. Simply attaching a visual to every maths formula, will help you to save and memorize it for a long. Before going through any result one must its process first, that how the conclusion arrives. Therefore, the same happens with memorizing maths formulas also. Always solve problems using your maths formulas repeatedly, because repetition leads to memorization. Question 5: What are the benefits of referring to GFG’s Class 8 Maths Notes available here? Answer: By referring to GFG’s Class 8 Maths Notes online, students do not have to wait till their next class to ask their tutors. Also, they can refer to them anytime they want. My Personal Notes arrow_drop_up Save Like Next Linear Equations in One Variable Recommended Articles Page : CBSE Class 9 Maths Notes 19, Apr 21 CBSE Class 10 Maths Notes 20, Apr 21 CBSE Class 11 Maths Notes 03, Jun 21 CBSE Class 12 Maths Notes 11, Nov 21 CBSE Class 10 Maths Term 1 Exam 2021 Paper Analysis Standard 27, Dec 21 CBSE Class 10 Term 1 Maths Answer Key 2021 Basic Paper 10, Jan 22 CBSE Class 12 Maths Term 1 2021 Answer Key 02, Feb 22 CBSE Class 9 Maths Formulas 09, Jan 22 CBSE Class 11 Maths Formulas 18, Feb 22 CBSE Class 8 Maths Formulas 08, Jan 22 CBSE Class 10 Maths Formulas 02, Feb 22 CBSE Physics Class 8 Notes 11, Nov 21 CBSE Class 8 Chemistry Notes 09, Jan 22 Polynomials in One Variable - Polynomials | Class 9 Maths 12, Jan 21 Point-slope Form - Straight Lines | Class 11 Maths 03, Nov 20 Mathematical Operations on Algebraic Expressions - Algebraic Expressions and Identities | Class 8 Maths 16, Nov 20 Theorem - The lengths of tangents drawn from an external point to a circle are equal - Circles | Class 10 Maths 24, Oct 20 Standard Algebraic Identities | Class 9 Maths 10, Feb 21 Mid Point Theorem - Quadrilaterals | Class 9 Maths 25, Oct 20 Graphing slope-intercept equations - Straight Lines | Class 11 Maths 04, Nov 20 Mensuration - Volume of Cube, Cuboid, and Cylinder | Class 8 Maths 23, Oct 20 Arithmetic Progression - Common difference and Nth term | Class 10 Maths 06, Oct 20 Arithmetic Progression – Sum of First n Terms | Class 10 Maths 02, Oct 20 Mensuration - Area of General Quadrilateral | Class 8 Maths 23, Oct 20 Article Contributed By : GeeksforGeeks Vote for difficulty Current difficulty : Easy Easy Normal Medium Hard Expert Improved By : anjalishukla1859 mayurigrover Article Tags : Blogathon Class 8 School Learning School Mathematics Report Issue Writing code in comment? Please use ide.geeksforgeeks.org, generate link and share the link here. Load Comments What's New School Guide: Roadmap For School Students View Details Data Structures & Algorithms- Self Paced Course View Details Complete Interview Preparation- Self Paced Course View Details Improve your Coding Skills with PracticeTry It! A-143, 9th Floor, Sovereign Corporate Tower, Sector-136, Noida, Uttar Pradesh - 201305 feedback@geeksforgeeks.org Company About Us Careers In Media Contact Us Privacy Policy Copyright Policy Learn Algorithms Data Structures SDE Cheat Sheet Machine learning CS Subjects Video Tutorials Courses News Top News Technology Work & Career Business Finance Lifestyle Knowledge Languages Python Java CPP Golang C# SQL Kotlin Web Development Web Tutorials Django Tutorial HTML JavaScript Bootstrap ReactJS NodeJS Contribute Write an Article Improve an Article Pick Topics to Write Write Interview Experience Internships Video Internship @geeksforgeeks , Some rights reserved We use cookies to ensure you have the best browsing experience on our website. By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understood our Cookie Policy & Privacy Policy Got It ! Start Your Coding Journey Now! Login Register