https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/cbse-class-12-maths-notes/?ref=ghm CBSE Class 12 Maths Notes - GeeksforGeeks Skip to content Courses For Working Professionals LIVE DSA Live Classes System Design Java Backend Development Full Stack LIVE Explore More Self-Paced DSA- Self Paced SDE Theory All Development Courses Explore More For Students LIVE Competitive Programming GATE Live Course 2023 Data Science Explore More Self-Paced DSA- Self Paced CIP JAVA / Python / C++ Explore More School Courses School Guide Python Programming Learn To Make Apps Explore more All Courses Tutorials Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Asymptotic Analysis Worst, Average and Best Cases Asymptotic Notations Little o and little omega notations Lower and Upper Bound Theory Analysis of Loops Solving Recurrences Amortized Analysis What does 'Space Complexity' mean ? Pseudo-polynomial Algorithms Polynomial Time Approximation Scheme A Time Complexity Question Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Bitwise Algorithms Randomized Algorithms Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch and Bound All Algorithms Data Structures Arrays Linked List Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings All Data Structures Interview Corner Company Preparation Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competititve Programming Design Patterns System Design Tutorial Multiple Choice Quizzes Languages C C++ Java Python C# JavaScript jQuery SQL PHP Scala Perl Go Language HTML CSS Kotlin ML & Data Science Machine Learning Data Science CS Subjects Mathematics Operating System DBMS Computer Networks Computer Organization and Architecture Theory of Computation Compiler Design Digital Logic Software Engineering GATE GATE Computer Science Notes Last Minute Notes GATE CS Solved Papers GATE CS Original Papers and Official Keys GATE 2021 Dates GATE CS 2021 Syllabus Important Topics for GATE CS Web Technologies HTML CSS JavaScript AngularJS ReactJS NodeJS Bootstrap jQuery PHP Software Designs Software Design Patterns System Design Tutorial School Learning School Programming Mathematics Number System Algebra Trigonometry Statistics Probability Geometry Mensuration Calculus Maths Notes (Class 8-12) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes Class 12 Notes NCERT Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution RD Sharma Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution Physics Notes (Class 8-11) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes Chemistry Notes Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes CS Exams/PSUs ISRO ISRO CS Original Papers and Official Keys ISRO CS Solved Papers ISRO CS Syllabus for Scientist/Engineer Exam UGC NET UGC NET CS Notes Paper II UGC NET CS Notes Paper III UGC NET CS Solved Papers Student Campus Ambassador Program School Ambassador Program Project Geek of the Month Campus Geek of the Month Placement Course Competititve Programming Testimonials Student Chapter Geek on the Top Internship Careers Jobs Apply for Jobs Post a Job Hire with Us Know about Jobathon Jobathon Practice All DSA Problems Problem of the Day Interview Series: Weekly Contests Bi-Wizard Coding: School Contests Contests and Events Practice SDE Sheet Curated DSA Lists Top 50 Array Problems Top 50 String Problems Top 50 Tree Problems Top 50 Graph Problems Top 50 DP Problems Write Come write articles for us and get featured Practice Learn and code with the best industry experts Premium Get access to ad-free content, doubt assistance and more! Jobs Come and find your dream job with us Geeks Digest Quizzes Geeks Campus Gblog Articles IDE Campus Mantri Home Saved Videos Courses GBlog Puzzles What's New ? Change Language Data Structures Algorithms Interview Preparation Topic-wise Practice C++ Java Python Competitive Programming Machine Learning HTML SDE Sheet Puzzles GFG School Projects Related Articles ▲ Related Articles GeeksforGeeks School Libraries in Python How to Connect Python with SQL Database? Reading Rows from a CSV File in Python Equation of a Line in 3D Domain constraints in DBMS Data Communication - Definition, Components, Types, Channels Degree of Relations in DBMS Algebra Difference between write() and writelines() function in Python SQL HAVING Clause with Examples Logic Gates - Definition, Types, Uses Statistics Shortest Distance Between Two Lines in 3D Space | Class 12 Maths Graphical Solution of Linear Programming Problems Calculus What is an IP Address? Class 12 NCERT Solutions - Mathematics Part I - Chapter 2 Inverse Trigonometric Functions - Exercise 2.1 Bayes' Theorem Linear Programming Dot and Cross Products on Vectors p-n Junction Diode- Definition, Formation, Characteristics, Applications Invertible Functions SQL USE Database Statement Sorting Algorithms in Python Torque on an Electric Dipole in Uniform Electric Field Basic Properties of Electric Charge Properties of Matrix Addition and Scalar Multiplication | Class 12 Maths Cardinality in DBMS Probability in Maths GeeksforGeeks School Libraries in Python How to Connect Python with SQL Database? Reading Rows from a CSV File in Python Equation of a Line in 3D Domain constraints in DBMS Data Communication - Definition, Components, Types, Channels Degree of Relations in DBMS Algebra Difference between write() and writelines() function in Python SQL HAVING Clause with Examples Logic Gates - Definition, Types, Uses Statistics Shortest Distance Between Two Lines in 3D Space | Class 12 Maths Graphical Solution of Linear Programming Problems Calculus What is an IP Address? Class 12 NCERT Solutions - Mathematics Part I - Chapter 2 Inverse Trigonometric Functions - Exercise 2.1 Bayes' Theorem Linear Programming Dot and Cross Products on Vectors p-n Junction Diode- Definition, Formation, Characteristics, Applications Invertible Functions SQL USE Database Statement Sorting Algorithms in Python Torque on an Electric Dipole in Uniform Electric Field Basic Properties of Electric Charge Properties of Matrix Addition and Scalar Multiplication | Class 12 Maths Cardinality in DBMS Probability in Maths CBSE Class 12 Maths Notes View Discussion Improve Article Save Article Like Article Difficulty Level : Medium Last Updated : 25 Jul, 2022 The last destination of the school – Class 12. If you wish to get into your dream college or university, this is the class where you’ve to score the best to obtain a ride to your future career destination. Especially when you don’t find notes for subjects like Maths and Science which terrorize students to the core when it comes to preparing for boards exam. This is why, to make your search easier, GeeksforGeeks curated CBSE Class 12 Maths Notes, guided by experts. Our CBSE Class 12 Mathematics Notes are written in simple language and cover nearly all of the chapters in the CBSE class 12 Maths Syllabus. Preparing from these CBSE Class 12 Maths Revision Notes will assist students in achieving high grades in their 12th grade as well as successful tests such as JEE Mains and JEE Advanced. These notes provided by GeeksforGeeks will help students understand each concept and revise thoroughly before the tests. These notes were written by content experts, and have a major advantage in that students would be well prepared to answer some kind of question that could be asked in the exams. CBSE Class 12 Maths Syllabus covers all the important chapters given in the revised NCERT textbooks that include some Important topics of Class 10 Maths like Composite functions, Matrices and its Types, Equation of Tangents and Normals, etc. To improve the basic concepts of students, GeeksforGeeks also covered 1500+ Most asked Questions of Mathematics, Chapterwise Important Formulas, and many more based on the new Class 12th CBSE syllabus. These notes and other study materials provide a helping hand for students to prepare for their Board Examinations. Chapter 1: Relations and Functions The term ‘relation’ in mathematics is derived from the English language’s definition of relationship, which states that two objects or quantities are linked if there is an observable connection or relation between them. This Class 12 Chapter 1 might be very confusing, therefore students can even use the strategies to improve in their learning. Let’s look at Class 12 Maths Chapter 1 Notes. Chapter 1 – Relation and functions discuss the introduction of relations and functions, types of relations, types of functions, the composition of functions and invertible functions, and binary operations. Important formulae covered in CBSE Class 12 Chapter 1- Relations and Functions, Relation– An Empty relation R in X, can be defined relation as: R = φ ⊂ X × X An Equivalence relation R in X is defined as a relation that can represent all the three types of relations: Reflexive, Symmetric, and Transitive relations. Symmetric relation R in X: (a, b) ∈ R ⇒ (b, a) ∈ R. Reflexive relation R in X: (a, a) ∈ R, ∀ a ∈ X. Transitive relation R in X: (a, b) ∈ R and (b, c) ∈ R, ⇒ (a, c) ∈ R. While, the Universal relation R in X: R = X × X. Function- Depending on the conclusion obtained functions f: X → Y can be of different types like, One-one or injective function: If f(x1) = f(x2) ⇒ x1 = x2 ∀ x1, x2 ∈ X. Onto or surjective function: If y ∈ Y, ∃ x ∈ X such that f(x) = y. One-one and onto or bijective function: if f follows both the one-one and onto properties. Invertible function: If ∃ g: Y → X such that gof = IX and fog = IY. This can happen only if f is one-one and onto. Chapter 1 of CBSE Class 12 Maths Notes covers the following topics: Types of Functions Composite functions Invertible Functions Composition of Functions Inverse Functions Verifying Inverse Functions by Composition More resources for CBSE Class 12 Maths Chapter 1 Class 12 NCERT Solutions Maths Chapter 1 Class 12 RD Sharma Solutions Relations and Functions Chapter 1, Chapter 2, and Chapter 3 All important formulas for Class 12 Chapter 1 Chapter 2: Inverse Trigonometric Functions The NCERT Class 12 Maths Chapter 2, Inverse Trigonometric Functions, covers a variety of subjects, including notes based on basic concepts of inverse trigonometric functions, properties of inverse trigonometric functions, and miscellaneous examples. These principles are well-explained with examples. In calculus, inverse trigonometric functions are essential because they are used to define various integrals. Inverse trigonometric functions have applications in science and engineering. Inverse Trigonometric Functions gives an account of various topics such as the graphs of inverse trigonometric functions, different properties of inverse trigonometric functions, along with their domain, range, and other important attributes. Here is the list of some important formulas covered in CBSE Class 12 Chapter 2- Inverse Trigonometric Functions, y = sin−1x ⇒ x = sin y x = sin y ⇒ y = sin−1x sin−1(1/x) = cosec−1x cos−1(1/x) = sec−1x tan−1(1/x) = cot−1x cos−1(−x) = π−cos−1x cot−1(−x) = π−cot−1x sec−1(−x) = π−sec−1x sin−1(−x) = −sin−1x tan−1(−x) = −tan−1x cosec−1(−x) = −cosec−1x tan−1x + cot−1x = π/2 sin−1x + cos−1x = π/2 cosec−1x + sec−1x = π/2 tan−1x + tan−1y = tan−1{x + y / (1−xy)} 2tan−1x = sin−1{2x / 1+x2} = cos−1{1−x2}/{1+x2} 2tan−1x = tan−12x / {1−x2} tan−1x + tan−1y = π + tan−1(x+y / 1−xy); xy > 1; x, y > 0 Chapter 2 of CBSE Class 12 Maths Notes covers the following topics: Basic Concepts Graphs of Inverse Trigonometric Functions Properties of Inverse Trigonometric Functions Inverse Trigonometric Identities More resources for CBSE Class 12 Maths Chapter 2 Class 12 NCERT Solutions Maths Chapter 2 Class 12 RD Sharma Solutions Inverse Trigonometric Functions All important formulas for Class 12 Chapter 2 Chapter 3: Matrices A Matrix is said to have an ordered rectangular array of functions or numbers. A matrix of order m × n consists of m rows and n columns. This chapter provides crucial knowledge of matrices that have applications in different areas such as business, sales, cost estimation, etc. Class 12 Maths Notes for Chapter 3 Matrics covers topics such as types of matrices, finding unknown quantities using equivalent matrices, and performing arithmetic operations on matrices. Also, how to transpose matrices and followed by the finding the inverse using different methods are covered in this chapter. Basic Operations of matrices that are introduced in CBSE Class 12 Chapter 3- Matrices, kA = k[aij]m × n = [k(aij)]m × n – A = (– 1)A A – B = A + (– 1)B A + B = B + A (A + B) + C = A + (B + C); where A, B and C all are of the same order k(A + B) = kA + kB; where A and B are of the same order; k is constant (k + l)A = kA + lA; where k and l are the constant If A = [aij]m × n and B = [bjk]n × p, then AB = C = m × p ; where cik = ∑nj=1aijbjk A.(BC) = (AB).C A(B + C) = AB + AC (A + B)C = AC + BC If A= [aij]m × n, then A’ or AT = [aji]n × m also, (A’)’ = A (kA)’ = kA’ (A + B)’ = A’ + B’ (AB)’ = B’A’ Chapter 3 of CBSE Class 12 Maths Notes covers the following topics: Matrices and its Types Mathematical Operations on Matrices Properties of Matrix Addition and Scalar Multiplication How to Multiply Matrices Transpose of a matrix Symmetric and Skew Symmetric Matrices Elementary Operations on Matrices Inverse of a Matrix by Elementary Operations Invertible Matrices More resources for CBSE Class 12 Maths Chapter 3 Class 12 NCERT Solutions Maths Chapter 3 Class 12 RD Sharma Solutions Matrices Chapter 1 and Chapter 2 All important formulas for Class 12 Chapter 3 Chapter 4: Determinants Class notes for Chapter 4 Determinants clearly demonstrate the image of the determinant of a square matrix and the way to find it. Characteristics of determinants, minors and cofactors, and linear equations are important sub-topics that are explained in this chapter thoroughly. This chapter is a continuation of the previous chapter of Matrices. This chapter helps to learn about the determinants, their properties, how determinants can be used to calculate the area of a triangle, and in solving a system of linear equations. Here is the list of some important formulas used to understand the concepts in CBSE Class 12 Chapter 4- Determinants, Definition of Determinant: For a given matrix, A = [a11]1 × 1 its determinant is defined as det a11 or |a11| = a11 For a 2 × 2 matrix, X = the determinant is defined as, For a 3 × 3 matrix, A = the determinant is defined as |A| = Area of a triangle with vertices (x1, y1), (x2, y2) and (x3, y3) is given by Minor: If the matrix given is: The Minor of a12 will be the determinant: Cofactor: Cofactors are related to minors by a small formula, for an element aij, the cofactor of this element is Cij and the minor is Mij then, cofactor can be written as: Cij = (-1)i+jMij Scalar Multiple Property of determinants: If each element of a row (or a column) of a determinant is multiplied by a constant k, then its value gets multiplied by k Sum Property of determinants:: If some or all elements of a row or column can be expressed as the sum of two or more terms, then the determinant can also be expressed as the sum of two or more determinants. Chapter 4 of CBSE Class 12 Maths Notes covers the following topics: Determinants Properties of Determinants Area of a Triangle using Determinants Minors and Cofactors Adjoint of a Matrix Application of Determinants and Matrices More resources for CBSE Class 12 Maths Chapter 4 Class 12 NCERT Solutions Maths Chapter 4 Class 12 RD Sharma Solutions Determinants Chapter 1 and Chapter 2 All important formulas for Class 12 Chapter 4 Chapter 5: Continuity and Differentiability The Chapter Continuity and Differentiability is the extension of the Differentiation of functions studied in Class 11. Now, in this class, you will understand functions, such as polynomial and trigonometric functions. This chapter focuses on the ideas of continuity, differentiability, and their interrelations. The topics covered in Chapter 5 Continuity and Differentiability are how to differentiate inverse trigonometric functions. In addition, you’ll learn about a new class of functions known as exponential and logarithmic functions. The derivatives of exponential and logarithmic functions, as well as logarithmic differentiation, will be covered. This chapter also covers the ideas of function derivatives in terms of parametric forms and second-order derivatives and introduction to the two theorems given by Rolle and Lagrange. Major Important formulas for CBSE Class 12 Chapter 5- Continuity and Differentiability, Properties related to continuity of a function: (f±g)(x) = f(x)±g(x) is continuous. (f.g)(x) = f(x).g(x) is continuous. fg(x) = f(x)g(x) (whenever g(x)≠0 is continuous. Chain Rule: If f = v o u, t = u (x) and if both dt/dx and dv/dx exists, then: df/dx = dv/dt . dt/dx Rolle’s Theorem: If f: [a, b] → R is continuous on [a, b] and differentiable on (a, b) where as f(a) = f(b), then there exists some c in (a, b) such that f ′(c) = 0. Mean Value Theorem: If f : [a, b] → R is continuous on [a, b] and differentiable on (a, b). Then there exists some c in (a, b) such that f′(c) = f(b)−f(a) / b−a Standard formulas for derivatives of a function d/dx (sin−1x) = 1/√1−x2 d/dx(cos−1x) = −1/√1−x2 d/dx(tan−1x) = 1/√1+x2 d/dx(cot−1x) = −1/√1+x2 d/dx(sec−1x) = 1/x√1−x2 d/dx(cosec−1x) = −1/x√1−x2 d/dx (ex) = ex d/dx (log x) = 1/x Chapter 5 of CBSE Class 12 Maths Notes covers the following topics: Continuity and Discontinuity in Calculus Differentiability of a Function Derivatives of Inverse Functions Derivatives of Implicit Functions Derivatives of Composite Functions Derivatives of Inverse Trigonometric Functions Derivatives of Exponential and Logarithmic Functions Logarithmic Differentiation Proofs for the derivatives of eˣ and ln(x) – Advanced differentiation Rolle’s and Lagrange’s Mean Value Theorem Derivative of functions in parametric forms Second-Order Derivatives in Continuity and Differentiability Mean value theorem Algebra of Continuous Functions More resources for CBSE Class 12 Maths Chapter 5 Class 12 NCERT Solutions Maths Chapter 5 Class 12 RD Sharma Solutions Continuity and Differentiability Chapter 1, Chapter 2, Chapter 3 and Chapter 4 All important formulas for Class 12 Chapter 5 Chapter 6: Applications of Derivatives Applications of Derivatives in Class 12 deals with the basic introduction of derivatives, how to determine the rate of change of quantities, find the minimum and maximum values of a function, and equations of tangents and normals to a curve. This is not enough students we have also covered increasing and decreasing functions and intervals, Equation of Tangents, and Normals. Important topics for the exam point of view are covered in a very easy-to-learn way. Such topics are relative and absolute Minima and Maxima, critical points, Curve Sketching, and Approximations. Important formulas of Derivatives studied in CBSE Class 12 Chapter 6- Applications of Derivatives, Equation of tangent in point-slope form is, (y – f(a))/(x – a) = f'(a) Equation of normal is, (y – f(a))/(x – a) = -1/f'(a) Second Derivative Test: When a function’s slope is zero at x, then the second derivative f” at that point is: f” < 0, if it is a maxima. f” > 0, if it is a minima. Chapter 6 of CBSE Class 12 Maths Notes covers the following topics: Critical Points Derivatives as Rate of Change Increasing and Decreasing Functions Increasing and Decreasing Intervals Tangents and Normals Equation of Tangents and Normals Relative Minima and Maxima Absolute Minima and Maxima Concave Function Inflection Points Curve Sketching Approximations & Maxima and Minima – Application of Derivatives Higher Order Derivatives More resources for CBSE Class 12 Maths Chapter 6 Class 12 NCERT Solutions Maths Chapter 6 Class 12 RD Sharma Solutions Applications of Derivatives Chapter 1, Chapter 2, Chapter 3, Chapter 4, Chapter 5 and Chapter 6 All important formulas for Class 12 Chapter 6 Chapter 7: Integrals The anti-derivative, also known as an integral, is introduced to students in CBSE Notes Class 12 maths Integrals. Students are taught about the geometric representation of integrals as well as how to perform function integration using numerous methods and formulas. In addition, students are taught about definite integrals. In this chapter, the methods to determine the function when its derivative is given and the area under a graph of a function are discussed. Basic properties of integrals and the fundamental theorem of calculus are also included in this chapter. The most crucial part of this chapter is covered well versed in the below links. Such topics are various methods used to determine the integration of a function such as integration by substitution, integration using partial fractions, integration by parts, integration using trigonometric identities, integration of some integral functions, and definition and concept of definite integrals. Along with Riemann sums with sigma notation, Trapezoidal rule, Definite integral as the limit of a Riemann sum, Indefinite integrals, and some methods to determine definite integrals like Integration by U-substitution, Reverse chain rule are discussed in these notes for chapter 7 integrals. Standard formulas of Integrals studied in CBSE Class 12 Chapter 7- Integrals, ∫xndx = xn+1/n+1+C, where n≠−1. ∫cos x dx = sin x + C ∫sin x dx = −cos x + C ∫sec 2x dx = tan x + C ∫cosec2x dx = −cot x + C ∫sec x tan x dx = sec x + C ∫cosec x cot x dx = −cosec x + C ∫dx / √1−x2 = sin−1x + C ∫dx / √1−x2 = -cos−1x + C ∫dx / 1+x2 = tan−1 x + C ∫dx / 1+x2 = −cot−1x + C ∫ex dx = ex + C ∫ax dx = axlog a + C ∫dx / x√x2−1 = sec−1x + C ∫dx / x√x2−1 = −cosec−1x + C ∫1 / x dx = log |x| + C Chapter 7 of CBSE Class 12 Maths Notes covers the following topics: Introduction to Integrals Integration by Substitution Integration by Partial Fractions Integration by Parts Integration using Trigonometric Identities Functions defined by Integrals Definite integrals Computing Definite Integrals Fundamental Theorem of Calculus Finding Derivative with Fundamental Theorem of Calculus Evaluation of Definite Integrals by Substitution Properties of Definite Integrals Definite integrals of piecewise functions Improper integrals Riemann sums Riemann sums with sigma notation Trapezoidal rule Definite integral as the limit of a Riemann sum Antiderivatives Indefinite integrals Particular Solutions to Differential Equations Integration by U-substitution Reverse chain rule Partial fraction expansion Trigonometric substitution More resources for CBSE Class 12 Maths Chapter 7 Class 12 NCERT Solutions Maths Chapter 7 Class 12 RD Sharma Solutions Integrals Chapter 1 and Chapter 2 All important formulas for Class 12 Chapter 7 Chapter 8: Applications of Integrals Through this chapter Applications of Integrals, we’ll be continuing to discuss integrals. A different application of Integrals like area under simple curves, area of the region bounded by a curve and a line, area between two curves, and miscellaneous examples. From the below-given links, students can access the chapter-wise notes explaining the concepts from this chapter. This chapter also included topics like how to find the area of different geometrical figures such as circles, parabolas, and ellipses. Important formulas of Integrals studied in CBSE Class 12 Chapter 8- Applications of Integrals, The area enclosed by the curve y = f (x) ; x-axis and the lines x = a and x = b (b > a) is given by the formula: Area = ∫bay dx=∫baf(x) dx Area of the region bounded by the curve x = φ (y) as its y-axis and the lines y = c, y = d is given by the formula: Area = ∫dcx dy=∫dcϕ(y) dy The area enclosed in between the two given curves y = f (x), y = g (x) and the lines x = a, x = b is given by the following formula: Area = ∫ba[f(x)−g(x)]dx where, f(x) ≥ g(x) in [a,b]. If f (x) ≥ g (x) in [a, c] and f (x) ≤ g (x) in , a < c < b, then: Area = ∫ca[f(x)−g(x)]dx+∫ca[g(x)−f(x)]dx Chapter 8 of CBSE Class 12 Maths Notes covers the following topics: Areas under Simple Curves Area Between Two curves Area defined by Polar Curves Area as Definite Integral More resources for CBSE Class 12 Maths Chapter 8 Class 12 NCERT Solutions Maths Chapter 8 Class 12 RD Sharma Solutions Applications of Integrals All important formulas for Class 12 Chapter 8 Chapter 9: Differential Equations In this Chapter, Differential Equations, students will be introduced to the concept of differential equations, basic concepts related to differential equations, degree of a differential equation, order of a differential equation, and general and particular solutions of a differential equation. The next section of the unit covers the formation of a differential equation, first-degree differentiable equations, and methods of solving first order, These concepts of differential equations and how to find solutions to a differential equation are very useful in various applications in Physics, and Economics. Important concepts discussed in CBSE Class 12 Chapter 9- Differential Equations, Order of differential equation: In the given differential equation, the greatest order of the derivative existent in the dependent variable with respect to the independent variable. General and Particular Solution of a Differential Equation: The general solution of the differential equation is the solution that contains arbitrary constants. A particular solution of the differential equation is one that is free of arbitrary constants and is produced from the general solution by assigning particular values to the arbitrary constants. Methods of Solving First Order, First Degree Differential Equations Differential equations with variables separable Homogeneous differential equations Linear differential equations Chapter 9 of CBSE Class 12 Maths Notes covers the following topics: Basic Concepts of differential equations Particular Solutions to Differential Equations Homogeneous Differential Equations Separable Differential Equations Exact equations and integrating factors Implicit Differentiation Implicit differentiation – Advanced Examples Advanced Differentiation Disguised Derivatives – Advanced differentiation Differentiation of Inverse Trigonometric Functions Logarithmic Differentiation More resources for CBSE Class 12 Maths Chapter 9 Class 12 NCERT Solutions Maths Chapter 9 Class 12 RD Sharma Solutions Differential Equations All important formulas for Class 12 Chapter 9 Chapter 10: Vector Algebra In this chapter, the concepts of Vector algebra, how to find the position vector of a point, geometrical interpretation of vectors, and scalar and cross product of vectors are discussed. These concepts have great importance in higher education (engineering and technology). Major topics covered in this chapter cover how to find position vector, some basic concepts related to vector algebra, direction cosines, types of vectors such as zero vector, unit vector, collinear vector, equal vector, negative of a vector, addition of vectors, properties of vector addition. Along with the multiplication of a vector by a scalar, components of a vector, vector joining two points, section formula, a product of two vectors, scalar or dot product of two vectors, properties of scalar product, projection of a vector on a line, vector or cross product of two vectors are discussed in this chapter. Here are all-important formulas for CBSE Class 12 Chapter 10- Vector Algebra, Commutative Law – A + B = B + A Associative Law – A + (B + C) = (A + B) + C Dot Product – (A • B )= |P| |Q| cos θ Cross Product – (A × B )= |P| |Q| sin θ k (A + B )= kA + kB Additive Identity – A + 0 = 0 + A Chapter 10 of CBSE Class 12 Maths Notes covers the following topics: Introduction to Vector Algebra Product of two vectors How to Find the Angle Between Two Vectors? Section Formula More resources for CBSE Class 12 Maths Chapter 10 Class 12 NCERT Solutions Maths Chapter 10 Class 12 RD Sharma Solutions Vector Algebra Chapter 1, Chapter 2, Chapter 3 and Chapter 4 All important formulas for Class 12 Chapter 10 Chapter 11: Three-dimensional Geometry Based on the vector algebra discussed in the previous chapter, here are the concepts like, how it can be applied to three-dimensional geometry. Also, the introduction to topics like direction cosines and direction ratios, cartesian and vector equations of a line, and how to find the shortest distance between two lines using these concepts are discussed in this part. Here are all-important formulas for CBSE Class 12 Chapter 11- Three-dimensional Geometry, Cartesian equation of a plane: lx + my + nz = d Distance between two points P(x1, y1, z1) and Q(x2, y2, z2): PQ = √ ((x1 – x2)2 + (y1 – y2)2 + (z1 – z2)2) Chapter 11 of CBSE Class 12 Maths Notes covers the following topics: Direction Cosines and Direction Ratios of a Line Equation of a Line in 3D Angle between two lines Shortest Distance Between Two Lines in 3D Space Points, Lines and Planes More resources for CBSE Class 12 Maths Chapter 11 Class 12 NCERT Solutions Maths Chapter 11 Class 12 RD Sharma Solutions Three-dimensional Geometry Chapter 1, Chapter 2 and Chapter 3 All important formulas for Class 12 Chapter 11 Chapter 12: Linear Programming This chapter is a continuation of the concepts of linear inequalities and the system of linear equations in two variables studied in the previous class. This chapter helps to learn how these concepts can be applied to solve real-world problems and how to optimize the problems of linear programming so that one can maximize resource utilization, minimize profits, etc. Important concepts studied in CBSE Class 12 Chapter 12- Linear Programming, The common region determined by all the constraints including the non-negative constraints x ≥ 0, y ≥ 0 of a linear programming problem is called the feasible region (or solution region) for the problem. Points within and on the boundary of the feasible region represent feasible solutions of the constraints. Any point outside the feasible region is an infeasible solution. Any point in the feasible region that gives the optimal value (maximum or minimum) of the objective function is called an optimal solution. Chapter 12 of CBSE Class 12 Maths Notes covers the following topics: Linear Programming Graphical Solution of Linear Programming Problems More resources for CBSE Class 12 Maths Chapter 12 Class 12 NCERT Solutions Maths Chapter 12 Class 12 RD Sharma Solutions Linear Programming All important formulas for Class 12 Chapter 12 Chapter 13: Probability This chapter deals with probability, the concept of probability are also studied in earlier classes. This chapter in the present class helps to learn about conditional probability. Further, the topics like Bayes’ theorem, independence of events, the probability distribution of random variables, mean and variance of a probability distribution, and Binomial distribution are discussed in this chapter. Important formulas studied in CBSE Class 12 Chapter 13- Probability, The conditional probability of an event E holds the value of the occurrence of the event F as: P(E|F) = E ∩ F / P(F), P(F)≠0 Total Probability: Let E1 , E2 , …. , En be the partition of a sample space and A be any event; then, P(A) = P(E1) P (A|E1) + P (E2) P (A|E2) + … + P (En) . P(A|En) Bayes Theorem: If E1 , E2 , …. , En are events contituting in a sample space S; then, P(Ei|A) = P(Ei) P(A|Ei) / ∑nj=1 P(Ej) P(A|Ej) Var (X) = E (X2) – [E(X)]2 Chapter 13 of CBSE Class 12 Maths Notes covers the following topics: Conditional Probability and Independence Multiplication Theorem Dependent and Independent Events Bayes’ Theorem Probability Distribution Binomial Random Variables and Binomial Distribution Binomial Mean and Standard Deviation Bernoulli Trials and Binomial Distribution Discrete Random Variables Expected Value More resources for CBSE Class 12 Maths Chapter 13 Class 12 NCERT Solutions Maths Chapter 13 Class 12 RD Sharma Solutions Probability All important formulas for Class 12 Chapter 1 Important Resources for CBSE Class 12th provided by GeeksforGeeks:- NCERT Solutions Maths Class 12 RD Sharma Solutions Maths Class 12 CBSE Class 12 Maths Formulas CBSE Physics Class 12 Notes CBSE Class 11 Chemistry Notes CBSE Class 12 Maths Term 1 2021 Answer Key Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) Question 1: What are the major topics covered in Class 12 Maths Chapter 5 Continuity and Differentiability? Answer: The major topics covered in Chapter 5 Continuity and Differentiability are Continuity of a function, and performing algebraic operations on continuous functions. Other topics included which are essential for exams are finding the derivatives of composite, implicit, trigonometric, exponential, and logarithmic functions, differentiation of functions in parametric form, second-order derivatives, mean value theorem as well as the chain rule for differentiation. Question 2: What are some important tips to study Chapter 9 Differential Equations in Class 9? Answer: The CBSE Class 12 Maths Notes for Chapter 9 may guide students in overcoming difficulty and trying to understand calculus concepts. Students can use the study tips listed below to help them speed up their learning. Before diving into differential equations, make sure you’ve completed the previous chapters. Make a list of formulas and take notes. Practice on a regular basis. Question 3: How these CBSE Class 12 Maths Notes are helpful for students in their board exams? Answer: When attempting board exams, students must prepare their papers in a format that may be easily understood by the persons who will be correcting them. The NCERT solutions include a detailed and step-by-step explanation that teaches students how to solve any problem. Because each step is assigned a set of marks, learners who follow the pattern of these NCERT solutions are certain to receive the highest possible grade. My Personal Notes arrow_drop_up Save Like Previous Number System and Arithmetic Next CBSE Physics Class 8 Notes Recommended Articles Page : CBSE Class 8 Maths Notes 19, Apr 21 CBSE Class 9 Maths Notes 19, Apr 21 CBSE Class 10 Maths Notes 20, Apr 21 CBSE Class 11 Maths Notes 03, Jun 21 CBSE Class 10 Maths Term 1 Exam 2021 Paper Analysis Standard 27, Dec 21 CBSE Class 10 Term 1 Maths Answer Key 2021 Basic Paper 10, Jan 22 CBSE Class 12 Maths Term 1 2021 Answer Key 02, Feb 22 CBSE Class 9 Maths Formulas 09, Jan 22 CBSE Class 11 Maths Formulas 18, Feb 22 CBSE Class 8 Maths Formulas 08, Jan 22 CBSE Class 10 Maths Formulas 02, Feb 22 Polynomials in One Variable - Polynomials | Class 9 Maths 12, Jan 21 Point-slope Form - Straight Lines | Class 11 Maths 03, Nov 20 Mathematical Operations on Algebraic Expressions - Algebraic Expressions and Identities | Class 8 Maths 16, Nov 20 Theorem - The lengths of tangents drawn from an external point to a circle are equal - Circles | Class 10 Maths 24, Oct 20 Standard Algebraic Identities | Class 9 Maths 10, Feb 21 Mid Point Theorem - Quadrilaterals | Class 9 Maths 25, Oct 20 Graphing slope-intercept equations - Straight Lines | Class 11 Maths 04, Nov 20 Mensuration - Volume of Cube, Cuboid, and Cylinder | Class 8 Maths 23, Oct 20 Arithmetic Progression - Common difference and Nth term | Class 10 Maths 06, Oct 20 Arithmetic Progression – Sum of First n Terms | Class 10 Maths 02, Oct 20 Mensuration - Area of General Quadrilateral | Class 8 Maths 23, Oct 20 Heights and Distances - Trigonometry | Class 10 Maths 29, Oct 20 Linear Equations in One Variable - Solving Equations which have Linear Expressions on one Side and Numbers on the other Side | Class 8 Maths 28, Oct 20 Article Contributed By : mayurigrover @mayurigrover Vote for difficulty Current difficulty : Medium Easy Normal Medium Hard Expert Improved By : anjalishukla1859 mayurigrover simmytarika5 Article Tags : Maths-Class-12 Class 12 School Learning School Mathematics Report Issue Writing code in comment? Please use ide.geeksforgeeks.org, generate link and share the link here. Load Comments What's New School Guide: Roadmap For School Students View Details Data Structures & Algorithms- Self Paced Course View Details Complete Interview Preparation- Self Paced Course View Details Improve your Coding Skills with PracticeTry It! A-143, 9th Floor, Sovereign Corporate Tower, Sector-136, Noida, Uttar Pradesh - 201305 feedback@geeksforgeeks.org Company About Us Careers In Media Contact Us Privacy Policy Copyright Policy Learn Algorithms Data Structures SDE Cheat Sheet Machine learning CS Subjects Video Tutorials Courses News Top News Technology Work & Career Business Finance Lifestyle Knowledge Languages Python Java CPP Golang C# SQL Kotlin Web Development Web Tutorials Django Tutorial HTML JavaScript Bootstrap ReactJS NodeJS Contribute Write an Article Improve an Article Pick Topics to Write Write Interview Experience Internships Video Internship @geeksforgeeks , Some rights reserved We use cookies to ensure you have the best browsing experience on our website. By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understood our Cookie Policy & Privacy Policy Got It ! Start Your Coding Journey Now! Login Register