https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/complete-guide-on-arrays-interview-preparation/ Complete Guide on Arrays Interview Preparation - GeeksforGeeks Skip to content Courses For Working Professionals LIVE DSA Live Classes System Design Java Backend Development Full Stack LIVE Explore More Self-Paced DSA- Self Paced SDE Theory All Development Courses Explore More For Students LIVE Competitive Programming GATE Live Course 2023 Data Science Explore More Self-Paced DSA- Self Paced CIP JAVA / Python / C++ Explore More School Courses School Guide Python Programming Learn To Make Apps Explore more All Courses Tutorials Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Asymptotic Analysis Worst, Average and Best Cases Asymptotic Notations Little o and little omega notations Lower and Upper Bound Theory Analysis of Loops Solving Recurrences Amortized Analysis What does 'Space Complexity' mean ? Pseudo-polynomial Algorithms Polynomial Time Approximation Scheme A Time Complexity Question Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Bitwise Algorithms Randomized Algorithms Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch and Bound All Algorithms Data Structures Arrays Linked List Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings All Data Structures Interview Corner Company Preparation Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competititve Programming Design Patterns System Design Tutorial Multiple Choice Quizzes Languages C C++ Java Python C# JavaScript jQuery SQL PHP Scala Perl Go Language HTML CSS Kotlin ML & Data Science Machine Learning Data Science CS Subjects Mathematics Operating System DBMS Computer Networks Computer Organization and Architecture Theory of Computation Compiler Design Digital Logic Software Engineering GATE GATE Computer Science Notes Last Minute Notes GATE CS Solved Papers GATE CS Original Papers and Official Keys GATE 2021 Dates GATE CS 2021 Syllabus Important Topics for GATE CS Web Technologies HTML CSS JavaScript AngularJS ReactJS NodeJS Bootstrap jQuery PHP Software Designs Software Design Patterns System Design Tutorial School Learning School Programming Mathematics Number System Algebra Trigonometry Statistics Probability Geometry Mensuration Calculus Maths Notes (Class 8-12) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes Class 12 Notes NCERT Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution RD Sharma Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution Physics Notes (Class 8-11) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes Chemistry Notes Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes CS Exams/PSUs ISRO ISRO CS Original Papers and Official Keys ISRO CS Solved Papers ISRO CS Syllabus for Scientist/Engineer Exam UGC NET UGC NET CS Notes Paper II UGC NET CS Notes Paper III UGC NET CS Solved Papers Student Campus Ambassador Program School Ambassador Program Project Geek of the Month Campus Geek of the Month Placement Course Competititve Programming Testimonials Student Chapter Geek on the Top Internship Careers Jobs Apply for Jobs Post a Job Hire with Us Know about Jobathon Jobathon Practice All DSA Problems Problem of the Day Interview Series: Weekly Contests Bi-Wizard Coding: School Contests Contests and Events Practice SDE Sheet Curated DSA Lists Top 50 Array Problems Top 50 String Problems Top 50 Tree Problems Top 50 Graph Problems Top 50 DP Problems Write Come write articles for us and get featured Practice Learn and code with the best industry experts Premium Get access to ad-free content, doubt assistance and more! Jobs Come and find your dream job with us Geeks Digest Quizzes Geeks Campus Gblog Articles IDE Campus Mantri Home Saved Videos Courses GBlog Puzzles What's New ? Change Language Array Matrix Strings Hashing Linked List Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Graph Searching Sorting Divide & Conquer Mathematical Geometric Bitwise Greedy Backtracking Branch and Bound Dynamic Programming Pattern Searching Randomized Related Articles ▲ Related Articles Arrays in Java Write a program to reverse an array or string Largest Sum Contiguous Subarray Program for array rotation Arrays in C/C++ Stack Data Structure (Introduction and Program) Top 50 Array Coding Problems for Interviews Maximum and minimum of an array using minimum number of comparisons Linear Search Given an array A[] and a number x, check for pair in A[] with sum as x (aka Two Sum) Multidimensional Arrays in Java K'th Smallest/Largest Element in Unsorted Array | Set 1 Subset Sum Problem | DP-25 Python | Using 2D arrays/lists the right way Find the Missing Number Array of Strings in C++ - 5 Different Ways to Create Queue | Set 1 (Introduction and Array Implementation) Search an element in a sorted and rotated Array Count Inversions in an array | Set 1 (Using Merge Sort) Linked List vs Array Program to find largest element in an array Introduction to Arrays Sort an array of 0s, 1s and 2s | Dutch National Flag problem Write a program to reverse an array or string Merge two sorted arrays Print a given matrix in spiral form Find Second largest element in an array Given an array of size n and a number k, find all elements that appear more than n/k times k largest(or smallest) elements in an array Sliding Window Maximum (Maximum of all subarrays of size k) Arrays in Java Write a program to reverse an array or string Largest Sum Contiguous Subarray Program for array rotation Arrays in C/C++ Stack Data Structure (Introduction and Program) Top 50 Array Coding Problems for Interviews Maximum and minimum of an array using minimum number of comparisons Linear Search Given an array A[] and a number x, check for pair in A[] with sum as x (aka Two Sum) Multidimensional Arrays in Java K'th Smallest/Largest Element in Unsorted Array | Set 1 Subset Sum Problem | DP-25 Python | Using 2D arrays/lists the right way Find the Missing Number Array of Strings in C++ - 5 Different Ways to Create Queue | Set 1 (Introduction and Array Implementation) Search an element in a sorted and rotated Array Count Inversions in an array | Set 1 (Using Merge Sort) Linked List vs Array Program to find largest element in an array Introduction to Arrays Sort an array of 0s, 1s and 2s | Dutch National Flag problem Write a program to reverse an array or string Merge two sorted arrays Print a given matrix in spiral form Find Second largest element in an array Given an array of size n and a number k, find all elements that appear more than n/k times k largest(or smallest) elements in an array Sliding Window Maximum (Maximum of all subarrays of size k) Complete Guide on Arrays Interview Preparation View Discussion Improve Article Save Article Like Article Last Updated : 29 Jul, 2022 The dream of every programmer is to become not just a good, but also a great programmer. We all want to achieve our goals and to achieve our goals, we must have a great plan with us. In this context, we have decided to provide a complete guide for Arrays interview preparation, which will help you to tackle the problems that are mostly asked in the interview, such as What is an Array, What is Array in C language, How do you initialize an Array in C, How to sort an Array, etc. We have also covered the topics such as Top Theoretical interview questions and Top interview coding questions in this complete guide for Array interview preparation. Complete guide for Arrays interview preparation What is an Array? An array is a collection of items of the same variable type stored that are stored at contiguous memory locations. It’s one of the most popular and simple data structures and is often used to implement other data structures. Each item in an array is indexed starting with 0. Array We can directly access an array element by using its index value. Basic terminologies of array Array Index: In an array, elements are identified by their indexes. Array index starts from 0. Array element: Elements are items stored in an array and can be accessed by their index. Array Length: The length of an array is determined by the number of elements it can contain. Representation of Array The representation of an array can be defined by its declaration. A declaration means allocating memory for an array of a given size. Arrays can be declared in various ways in different languages. For better illustration, below are some language-specific array declarations. C++ int arr[5]; // This array will store integer type element char arr[10]; // This array will store char type element float arr[20]; // This array will store float type element C int arr[5]; // This array will store integer type element char arr[10]; // This array will store char type element float arr[20]; // This array will store float type element Java /* Static Arrays are arrays that are declared before runtime and are assigned values while writing the code. */ // The syntax of declaring a static array is: <data type><variable name>[] = {<data1>, <data2>,…..<dataN> }; // Example: int arr[] = { 2, 5, 6, 9, 7, 4, 3 }; C# int[] arr = new int[5]; // This array will store integer type element Array declaration However, the above declaration is static or compile-time memory allocation, which means that the array element’s memory is allocated when a program is compiled. Here only a fixed size (i,e. the size that is mentioned in square brackets []) of memory will be allocated for storage, but don’t you think it will not be the same situation as we know the size of the array every time, there might be a case where we don’t know the size of the array. If we declare a larger size and store a lesser number of elements will result in a wastage of memory or either be a case where we declare a lesser size then we won’t get enough memory to store the rest of the elements. In such cases, static memory allocation is not preferred. Is it possible to create dynamic array? The answer is Yes. It is possible to allocate memory dynamically. So, dynamic memory allocation is the process of assigning the memory space during the execution time or the run time. Below are the languages that support dynamic memory allocation: C++ int *array = new int[5]; Java // The syntax of declaring a dynamic array is: // <data type> <variable name> [ <Total Number of elements to be stored in array>]; // Example: int arr[10]; // Store integer elements String arr[5]; // Store String type of elements Python3 # list of integers my_list = [1, 2, 3, 4] # Empty list my_list = [] # list of mixed data types my_list = ["Hello", 1, 5.5] C# int[] numArray = new int[] {}; Javascript // JavaScript has dynamic arrays: their size is not predetermined, nor the type of data. // Create array using literal var x = ["a", "b", "c"]; // Create array using constructor var x = new Array(); // Create array using constructor with items var y = new Array("a", "b", "c"); PHP $arr = array("a","b","c"); Why Array Data Structures is needed? Assume there is a class of five students and if we have to keep records of their marks in examination then, we can do this by declaring five variables individual and keeping track of records but what if the number of students becomes very large, it would be challenging to manipulate and maintain the data. What it means is that, we can use normal variables (v1, v2, v3, ..) when we have a small number of objects. But if we want to store a large number of instances, it becomes difficult to manage them with normal variables. The idea of an array is to represent many instances in one variable.. Need for Array Types of arrays: There are majorly two types of arrays: One-dimensional array (1-D arrays): You can imagine a 1d array as a row, where elements are stored one after another. 1D array Two-dimensional array: 2-D Multidimensional arrays can be considered as an array of arrays or as a matrix consisting of rows and columns. 2D array Three-dimensional array: A 3-D Multidimensional array contains three dimensions, so it can be considered an array of two-dimensional arrays. 3D array Types of Array operations: Traversal: Traverse through the elements of an array. Insertion: Inserting a new element in an array. Deletion: Deleting element from the array. Searching: Search for an element in the array. Sorting: Maintaining the order of elements in the array. Advantages of using Arrays: Arrays allow random access to elements. This makes accessing elements by position faster. Arrays have better cache locality which makes a pretty big difference in performance. Arrays represent multiple data items of the same type using a single name. Arrays store multiple data of similar types with the same name. Array data structures are used to implement the other data structures like linked lists, stacks, queues, trees, graphs, etc. Disadvantages of Array: As arrays have a fixed size, once the memory is allocated to them, it cannot be increased or decreased, making it impossible to store extra data if required. An array of fixed size is referred to as a static array. Allocating less memory than required to an array leads to loss of data. An array is homogenous in nature so, a single array cannot store values of different data types. Arrays store data in contiguous memory locations, which makes deletion and insertion very difficult to implement. This problem is overcome by implementing linked lists, which allow elements to be accessed randomly. Application of Array: They are used in the implementation of other data structures such as array lists, heaps, hash tables, vectors, and matrices. Database records are usually implemented as arrays. It is used in lookup tables by computer. It is used for different sorting algorithms such as bubble sort insertion sort, merge sort, and quick sort. Top theoretical interview questions S.no Question Answer 1 What will happen if you do not initialize an Array? View 2 Why is the complexity of fetching a value from an array be O(1) View 3 When should you use an Array over a List? View 4 What is a circularly sorted array? View 5 Comparing two arrays using hashmap? View 6 “What are the advantages of a linked list over an array? In which scenarios do we use LinkedList and when Array?” View 7 How do I iterate rows and columns of a multidimensional array? View 8 What is meant by Sparse Array? View 9 What are the benefits of Heap over Sorted Arrays? View 10 Is there any difference between int[] a and int a[]? View 11 Can we declare array size as a negative number? View 12 We know that Arrays are objects so why cannot we write strArray.length()? View 13 What are the advantages of Sorted Arrays? View 14 What defines the dimensionality of an Array? View 15 How to check array contains a value or not? View 16 How to create an array/list inside another array/list? View 17 How to get the largest and smallest number in an array? View 18 How can I return coordinates/indexes of a string in a multidimensional array? View 19 How do I remove objects from an array in Java? View 20 How does C allocate data items in a multidimensional array? View 21 Get adjacent elements in a two-dimensional array? View 22 C++ How to use and pass a 3-dimensional char array? View 23 Anonymous Array in Java View 24 What is the default value of Array in Java? View 25 How to copy an array into another array? View 26 How to iterate an array in java? View 27 How to merge two sorted Arrays into a Sorted Array? View 28 Can we make the array volatile in Java? View 29 What is the logic to reverse the array? View 30 How to get the index of an array element? View 31 Can we extend an array after initialization? View 32 How to fill elements (initialize at once) in an array? View 33 Difference between Array and String in Java View 34 Print all subarrays with 0 sum View 35 Equilibrium index of an array View 36 How to check array contains a value or not? View 37 How to get the top two numbers from an array? View 38 How to implement 3 Stacks with one Array? View Top 50 interview coding question Easy Problems on Arrays S.no Question Article Practice 1 Peak Element View Solve 2 Find the minimum and maximum element in an array View Solve 3 Write a program to reverse the array View Solve 4 Write a program to sort the given array View Solve 5 Find the Kth largest and Kth smallest number in an array View Solve 6 Find the occurrence of an integer in the array View Solve 7 Sort the array of 0s, 1s, and 2s View Solve 8 Subarray with given Sum View Solve 9 Move all the negative elements to one side of the array View Solve 10 Find the Union and Intersection of the two sorted arrays View Solve Medium Problems on Arrays S.no Question Article Practice 1 Write a program to cyclically rotate an array by one View Solve 2 Find the missing integer View Solve 3 Count Pairs with given sum View Solve 4 Find duplicates in an array View Solve 5 Sort an Array using the Quicksort algorithm View Solve 6 Find common elements in three sorted arrays View Solve 7 Find the first repeating element in an array of integers View Solve 8 Find the first non-repeating element in a given array of integers View Solve 9 Subarrays with equal 1s and 0s View Solve 10 Rearrange the array in alternating positive and negative items View Solve 11 Find if there is any subarray with a sum equal to zero View Solve 12 Find the Largest sum contiguous Subarray View Solve 13 Find the factorial of a large number View Solve 14 Find Maximum Product Subarray View Solve 15 Find the longest consecutive subsequence View Solve 16 Find the minimum element in a rotated and sorted array View Solve 17 Max sum in the configuration View Solve 18 Minimum Platforms View Solve 19 Minimize the maximum difference between the heights View Solve 20 Minimum number of jumps to reach the end View Solve 21 Stock Span problem View Solve 23 Find a triplet that sums to a given value View Solve 23 Smallest positive missing number View Solve 24 Find the row with a maximum number of 1’s View Solve 25 Print the matrix in a Spiral manner View Solve 26 Find whether an array is a subset of another array View Solve 27 Implement two Stacks in an array View Solve 28 Majority Element View Solve 29 Wave Array View Solve 30 Trapping Rainwater View Solve Hard Problems S.no Question Article Practice 1 Maximum Index View Solve 2 Max sum path in two arrays View Solve 3 Find Missing And Repeating View Solve 4 Stock buy and sell Problem View Solve 5 Pair with the given sum in a sorted array View Solve 6 Chocolate Distribution Problem View Solve 7 Partition Equal Subset Sum View Solve 8 Smallest Positive integer that can’t be represented as a sum View Solve 9 Coin Change Problem View Solve 10 Longest Alternating subsequence View Solve Frequently asked questions (FAQs) about Memoization 1. What is an array in data structure with example? An array is a collection of items of the same data type stored at contiguous memory locations. Ex. int arr[5] = {1,2,3,4,5}; 2. Why array is a data structure? Arrays store elements of the same type, they are classified as homogeneous data structures. They can store numbers, strings, characters, boolean values (true and false), objects, and so on. 3. What data structure is an array? An array is a linear data structure that stores similar elements in contiguous memory locations. 4. What are the types of arrays? There are majorly two types of arrays: One dimensional array Multidimensional array 5. How is data stored in an array? An array is a collection of items of the same data type stored at contiguous memory locations or says the elements are stored one after another in memory. An array uses an index system starting at 0 and going to (n-1), where n is its size. 6. Difference between array and structure? The structure can contain variables of different types but an array only contains variables of the same type. 7. What are the limitations of an array? An array is a collection of items of the same data type, That means, in an integer array only integer values can be stored, while in a float array only floating values and character array can have only characters. Thus, no array can have values of two data types. 8. What are the advantages of an array? There are multiple advantages of array data structure and some of them are: Arrays allow random access to elements. This makes accessing elements by position faster. Arrays store multiple data of similar types with the same name. Array data structures are used to implement the other data structures like linked lists, stacks, queues, trees, graphs, etc. 9. What is the purpose of using arrays? An array is used when several variables of the same type need to be used, and it can be defined as a sequence of objects of the same type. 10. What is a multidimensional array? A multi-dimensional array can be termed as an array of arrays that stores homogeneous data in tabular form. Data in Multidimensional Arrays are stored in row-major order. Conclusion After the discussion, we concluded that arrays are a simple method of accessing elements of the same type by grouping them and we can find the elements efficiently by their indexes and can perform different operations using them. Thus, they are more efficient when it comes to memory allocation and should be used in all modern programming languages. So, this becomes a favorite topic for the perspective of the interview and most of the companies generally asked about the problems on the array. For all these reasons, we must have a good knowledge of it. Related articles: How to start data learning DSA? Competitive Programming – A Complete Guide How can one become good at Data Structures and Algorithms easily? Why Data Structures and Algorithms Are Important to Learn? Top 15 Websites for Coding Challenges and competitions SDE SHEET – A Complete Guide for SDE Preparation Amazon SDE Sheet – A Guide for Amazon SDE Interview Preparation Google Interview Preparation For Software Engineer – A Complete Guide 100 Days of Code – A Complete Guide For Beginners and Experienced My Personal Notes arrow_drop_up Save Like Previous Count minimum decrement prefix or suffix or increment all operations to make Array equal to 0 Recommended Articles Page : CAT Preparation 2019: A Complete Preparation Package You Require for Cracking CAT 2019 13, Jul 19 Google Interview Preparation For Software Engineer - A Complete Guide 21, Oct 19 How I cracked EPAM Systems Drive 2020- Complete Guide On Preparation and FAQs 22, Aug 19 SDE SHEET - A Complete Guide for SDE Preparation 21, Feb 22 GRE 2021 Preparation Test Series - Boost Your Preparation 13, Jul 21 Amazon SDE Sheet - A Guide for Amazon SDE Interview Preparation 14, Jul 22 Complete Interview Preparation package you must have this Placement Season 27, Jun 19 Complete Interview Preparation With Doubt Assistance - Get Your Every Question Answered! 06, Apr 21 GeeksforGeeks Complete Interview Preparation Course - Get a Job in your Dream Company! 29, Jun 20 Complete Interview Preparation With Doubt Assistance - INR 90 Lakh Cashback Pool Offer!! 13, Aug 20 A Step by Step Guide for Placement Preparation | Set 2 06, Aug 16 Placement Preparation Guide 02, Jul 18 A Step by Step Guide for Placement Preparation | Set 1 03, Aug 16 Winter Interview Preparation Course - Get Interview-Ready For FREE! 20, Dec 21 How to prepare for Infosys - The Complete guide 05, Dec 16 A Complete Guide to Learn Kotlin For Android App Development 07, Jul 21 How to Become a Full Stack Web Developer in 2019 : A Complete Guide 02, Jun 19 How to Become a Data Analyst in 2019: A Complete Guide 30, Sep 19 How to Become a Data Scientist in 2019: A Complete Guide 08, Oct 19 Switch Your Career to Machine Learning - A Complete Guide 17, Nov 19 How to Write a Research Paper - A Complete Guide 28, Jan 20 How to Start a Career in Software Testing - A Complete Guide! 10, Jul 20 How to Learn Java Collections - A Complete Guide 21, Aug 20 Learn Java For Android App Development - A Complete Guide 26, Jun 21 Article Contributed By : harendrakumar123 @harendrakumar123 Vote for difficulty Easy Normal Medium Hard Expert Article Tags : Interview Tips interview-preparation interview-questions Arrays Data Structures GBlog Practice Tags : Data Structures Arrays Report Issue Writing code in comment? Please use ide.geeksforgeeks.org, generate link and share the link here. Load Comments What's New Practice Problems, POTD Streak, Weekly Contests & More! View Details Data Structures & Algorithms- Self Paced Course View Details Complete Interview Preparation- Self Paced Course View Details Improve your Coding Skills with PracticeTry It! A-143, 9th Floor, Sovereign Corporate Tower, Sector-136, Noida, Uttar Pradesh - 201305 feedback@geeksforgeeks.org Company About Us Careers In Media Contact Us Privacy Policy Copyright Policy Learn Algorithms Data Structures SDE Cheat Sheet Machine learning CS Subjects Video Tutorials Courses News Top News Technology Work & Career Business Finance Lifestyle Knowledge Languages Python Java CPP Golang C# SQL Kotlin Web Development Web Tutorials Django Tutorial HTML JavaScript Bootstrap ReactJS NodeJS Contribute Write an Article Improve an Article Pick Topics to Write Write Interview Experience Internships Video Internship @geeksforgeeks , Some rights reserved We use cookies to ensure you have the best browsing experience on our website. By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understood our Cookie Policy & Privacy Policy Got It ! Start Your Coding Journey Now! Login Register