https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/#main GeeksforGeeks | A computer science portal for geeks Skip to content Courses For Working Professionals LIVE DSA Live Classes System Design Java Backend Development Full Stack LIVE Explore More Self-Paced DSA- Self Paced SDE Theory All Development Courses Explore More For Students LIVE Competitive Programming GATE Live Course 2023 Data Science Explore More Self-Paced DSA- Self Paced CIP JAVA / Python / C++ Explore More School Courses School Guide Python Programming Learn To Make Apps Explore more All Courses Tutorials Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Asymptotic Analysis Worst, Average and Best Cases Asymptotic Notations Little o and little omega notations Lower and Upper Bound Theory Analysis of Loops Solving Recurrences Amortized Analysis What does 'Space Complexity' mean ? Pseudo-polynomial Algorithms Polynomial Time Approximation Scheme A Time Complexity Question Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Bitwise Algorithms Randomized Algorithms Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch and Bound All Algorithms Data Structures Arrays Linked List Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings All Data Structures Interview Corner Company Preparation Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competititve Programming Design Patterns System Design Tutorial Multiple Choice Quizzes Languages C C++ Java Python C# JavaScript jQuery SQL PHP Scala Perl Go Language HTML CSS Kotlin ML & Data Science Machine Learning Data Science CS Subjects Mathematics Operating System DBMS Computer Networks Computer Organization and Architecture Theory of Computation Compiler Design Digital Logic Software Engineering GATE GATE Computer Science Notes Last Minute Notes GATE CS Solved Papers GATE CS Original Papers and Official Keys GATE 2021 Dates GATE CS 2021 Syllabus Important Topics for GATE CS Web Technologies HTML CSS JavaScript AngularJS ReactJS NodeJS Bootstrap jQuery PHP Software Designs Software Design Patterns System Design Tutorial School Learning School Programming Mathematics Number System Algebra Trigonometry Statistics Probability Geometry Mensuration Calculus Maths Notes (Class 8-12) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes Class 12 Notes NCERT Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution RD Sharma Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution Physics Notes (Class 8-11) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes Chemistry Notes Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes CS Exams/PSUs ISRO ISRO CS Original Papers and Official Keys ISRO CS Solved Papers ISRO CS Syllabus for Scientist/Engineer Exam UGC NET UGC NET CS Notes Paper II UGC NET CS Notes Paper III UGC NET CS Solved Papers Student Campus Ambassador Program School Ambassador Program Project Geek of the Month Campus Geek of the Month Placement Course Competititve Programming Testimonials Student Chapter Geek on the Top Internship Careers Jobs Apply for Jobs Post a Job Hire with Us Know about Jobathon Jobathon Practice All DSA Problems Problem of the Day Interview Series: Weekly Contests Bi-Wizard Coding: School Contests Contests and Events Practice SDE Sheet Curated DSA Lists Top 50 Array Problems Top 50 String Problems Top 50 Tree Problems Top 50 Graph Problems Top 50 DP Problems Write Come write articles for us and get featured Practice Learn and code with the best industry experts Premium Get access to ad-free content, doubt assistance and more! Jobs Come and find your dream job with us Geeks Digest Quizzes Geeks Campus Gblog Articles IDE Campus Mantri Home Saved Videos Courses GBlog Puzzles What's New ? Change Language Data Structures Algorithms Interview Preparation Topic-wise Practice C++ Java Python Competitive Programming Machine Learning HTML SDE Sheet Puzzles GFG School Projects ▲ Gblog GeeksforGeeks Job-A-Thon Exclusive – Hiring Challenge For Amazon Alexa Getting a job in Product Based Companies is a dream come true for everyone and when we talk about Amazon, every one of us wants… Read More Complete Guide on Arrays Interview Preparation The dream of every programmer is to become not just a good, but also a great programmer. We all want to achieve our goals and… Read More Interview Tips interview-preparation interview-questions Arrays Data Structures GBlog Most In-Demand Skills to Become a Full Stack Developer Full-stack developers are one of the most trending and responsible sectors in the field of software development. The reason is, that they need to sound… Read More GBlog Web Technologies VideosExplore 8:28 C++ Program to Check if a Given Number is Ugly Number or not 29/07/2022 8:28 2D Reflection in Computer Graphics 29/07/2022 13:03 Java Program to Print all Interleavings of given Two Strings 29/07/2022 19:36 Preemptive Priority CPU Scheduling Algorithm 29/07/2022 15:27 Python program to Print Pascal’s Triangle 28/07/2022 4:53 Extract Leaves of a Binary Tree in a Doubly Linked List 28/07/2022 9:25 2D Rotation in Computer Graphics 28/07/2022 9:31 Print the Sum of Two Numbers | Javascript Program 28/07/2022 19:02 CPU Scheduling Algorithms in Operating System 28/07/2022 5:16 Print a 2D array | C++ Program 27/07/2022 Cognizant Digital Nurture 2.0 Interview Experience 2022 What is Digital nurture 2.0? Digital Nurture 2.0 is a transformative training and recruitment approach for you while you are in the 6th semester, which… Read More Cognizant Write it Up Internship Interview Experiences Truminds Interview Experience for SDE (On-Campus) Round 1: It was an online test of two hours duration on HackerEarth platform. Consisted of 18 MCQs from CS subjects – Operating Systems, DSA,… Read More On-Campus Truminds Write it Up Interview Experiences Count minimum decrement prefix or suffix or increment all operations to make Array equal to 0 Given an array arr[] of size N. The task is to make all the array elements equal to zero by applying the minimum number of… Read More Arrays Greedy Find minimum Diameter BST having Sum equal to target K Given a binary tree and a target K, the task is to find the diameter of the minimum subtree having sum equal to K which… Read More Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Dynamic Programming Queue in Go Language Medium A queue is a linear structure that follows a particular order in which the operations are performed. The order is First In First Out (FIFO). … Read More Go Language Linked List Queue What is the Stack Size Estimation What is stack size estimation? Stack size estimation is the process of forecasting the size of the stack that an operating system might use for… Read More memory-management Picked Operating Systems Stack Maximum possible difference between two Subarrays after removing N elements from Array Given an array arr[] which is of 3*N size, the task is to remove N elements and divide the whole array into two equal parts… Read More Arrays loop Arrays Greedy Heap Quick Links Events at GeeksforGeeks Courses at GeeksforGeeks Write an Article Java Tutorial Python Tutorial Data Structures Tutorial Coding Practice Causes Of Rupee Falling Against US Dollar And Its Effect Whenever the value of a currency falls, it badly impacts that nation’s economy and results in a higher rate of inflation. The value of any… Read More Economics UPSC Hash Sort Algorithm There have always been arguments about how can be a sorting algorithm of linear time complexity be achieved, as all the traditional sorting algorithms are… Read More Hash Picked Sorting Nvidia Interview Experience for QA SDET Intern (On-Campus) Interview process held in Nov 2021 for internship duration of 5 months starting from Jan to Jun. Hackerrank test consists of 2 coding problems, OS,… Read More Nvidia On-Campus Write it Up Interview Experiences MAQ Software Interview Experience for Associate Software Engineer (Internship + FTE) 2023 Expert Round1 (Written Test): Their test was conducted on a special platform which we have to install on our pc before giving the test. The written… Read More MAQ Software Write it Up Internship Interview Experiences Count of Pairs with given sum in Rotated Sorted Array Given an array arr[] of distinct elements size N that is sorted and then around an unknown point, the task is to count the number… Read More Binary Search Arrays Searching Python List max() Method Python list max() function returns the maximum value present in the list. Python List max() Method Syntax: Syntax: max(listname) Parameter: listname : Name of list… Read More python-list python-list-functions Python Page 1 of 8,28512345...102030...»Last » What's New Data Structures & Algorithms- Self Paced Course View Details Complete Interview Preparation- Self Paced Course View Details Practice Problems, POTD Streak, Weekly Contests & More! View Details Quick Links Events at GeeksforGeeks Courses at GeeksforGeeks Write an Article Java Tutorial Python Tutorial Data Structures Tutorial Coding Practice Featured ArticlesView All Write It Up: Share Your Interview Experiences July 5, 2022 GEEK-O-LYMPICS 2022 – May The Geeks Force Be With You! June 30, 2022 Learn with GeeksforGeeks Course – Best Courses To Land Job In Your Dream Company June 18, 2022 GFG Summer Break Challenge 2022 – FREE Weekly DSA Coding Contest Series June 13, 2022 SDE SHEET – A Complete Guide for SDE Preparation February 21, 2022 Recommended Guest Blogs Must Do Coding Questions Company-wise Practice for cracking any coding interview Placements Complete Interview Preparation With Doubt Assistance GATE Computer Science Notes Machine Learning Django Tutorial Computer Science Projects Amazon SDE Test Series Company Interview Corner The C++ Standard Template Library (STL) Software Design Patterns SQL Tutorial Advanced Data Structures Improve your Coding Skills with PracticeTry It! A-143, 9th Floor, Sovereign Corporate Tower, Sector-136, Noida, Uttar Pradesh - 201305 feedback@geeksforgeeks.org Company About Us Careers In Media Contact Us Privacy Policy Copyright Policy Learn Algorithms Data Structures SDE Cheat Sheet Machine learning CS Subjects Video Tutorials Courses News Top News Technology Work & Career Business Finance Lifestyle Knowledge Languages Python Java CPP Golang C# SQL Kotlin Web Development Web Tutorials Django Tutorial HTML JavaScript Bootstrap ReactJS NodeJS Contribute Write an Article Improve an Article Pick Topics to Write Write Interview Experience Internships Video Internship @geeksforgeeks , Some rights reserved We use cookies to ensure you have the best browsing experience on our website. By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understood our Cookie Policy & Privacy Policy Got It ! Start Your Coding Journey Now! Login Registerhttps://www.geeksforgeeks.org/ GeeksforGeeks | A computer science portal for geeks Skip to content Courses For Working Professionals LIVE DSA Live Classes System Design Java Backend Development Full Stack LIVE Explore More Self-Paced DSA- Self Paced SDE Theory All Development Courses Explore More For Students LIVE Competitive Programming GATE Live Course 2023 Data Science Explore More Self-Paced DSA- Self Paced CIP JAVA / Python / C++ Explore More School Courses School Guide Python Programming Learn To Make Apps Explore more All Courses Tutorials Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Asymptotic Analysis Worst, Average and Best Cases Asymptotic Notations Little o and little omega notations Lower and Upper Bound Theory Analysis of Loops Solving Recurrences Amortized Analysis What does 'Space Complexity' mean ? Pseudo-polynomial Algorithms Polynomial Time Approximation Scheme A Time Complexity Question Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Bitwise Algorithms Randomized Algorithms Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch and Bound All Algorithms Data Structures Arrays Linked List Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings All Data Structures Interview Corner Company Preparation Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competititve Programming Design Patterns System Design Tutorial Multiple Choice Quizzes Languages C C++ Java Python C# JavaScript jQuery SQL PHP Scala Perl Go Language HTML CSS Kotlin ML & Data Science Machine Learning Data Science CS Subjects Mathematics Operating System DBMS Computer Networks Computer Organization and Architecture Theory of Computation Compiler Design Digital Logic Software Engineering GATE GATE Computer Science Notes Last Minute Notes GATE CS Solved Papers GATE CS Original Papers and Official Keys GATE 2021 Dates GATE CS 2021 Syllabus Important Topics for GATE CS Web Technologies HTML CSS JavaScript AngularJS ReactJS NodeJS Bootstrap jQuery PHP Software Designs Software Design Patterns System Design Tutorial School Learning School Programming Mathematics Number System Algebra Trigonometry Statistics Probability Geometry Mensuration Calculus Maths Notes (Class 8-12) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes Class 12 Notes NCERT Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution RD Sharma Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution Physics Notes (Class 8-11) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes Chemistry Notes Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes CS Exams/PSUs ISRO ISRO CS Original Papers and Official Keys ISRO CS Solved Papers ISRO CS Syllabus for Scientist/Engineer Exam UGC NET UGC NET CS Notes Paper II UGC NET CS Notes Paper III UGC NET CS Solved Papers Student Campus Ambassador Program School Ambassador Program Project Geek of the Month Campus Geek of the Month Placement Course Competititve Programming Testimonials Student Chapter Geek on the Top Internship Careers Jobs Apply for Jobs Post a Job Hire with Us Know about Jobathon Jobathon Practice All DSA Problems Problem of the Day Interview Series: Weekly Contests Bi-Wizard Coding: School Contests Contests and Events Practice SDE Sheet Curated DSA Lists Top 50 Array Problems Top 50 String Problems Top 50 Tree Problems Top 50 Graph Problems Top 50 DP Problems Write Come write articles for us and get featured Practice Learn and code with the best industry experts Premium Get access to ad-free content, doubt assistance and more! Jobs Come and find your dream job with us Geeks Digest Quizzes Geeks Campus Gblog Articles IDE Campus Mantri Home Saved Videos Courses GBlog Puzzles What's New ? Change Language Data Structures Algorithms Interview Preparation Topic-wise Practice C++ Java Python Competitive Programming Machine Learning HTML SDE Sheet Puzzles GFG School Projects ▲ Gblog GeeksforGeeks Job-A-Thon Exclusive – Hiring Challenge For Amazon Alexa Getting a job in Product Based Companies is a dream come true for everyone and when we talk about Amazon, every one of us wants… Read More Complete Guide on Arrays Interview Preparation The dream of every programmer is to become not just a good, but also a great programmer. We all want to achieve our goals and… Read More Interview Tips interview-preparation interview-questions Arrays Data Structures GBlog Most In-Demand Skills to Become a Full Stack Developer Full-stack developers are one of the most trending and responsible sectors in the field of software development. The reason is, that they need to sound… Read More GBlog Web Technologies VideosExplore 8:28 C++ Program to Check if a Given Number is Ugly Number or not 29/07/2022 8:28 2D Reflection in Computer Graphics 29/07/2022 13:03 Java Program to Print all Interleavings of given Two Strings 29/07/2022 19:36 Preemptive Priority CPU Scheduling Algorithm 29/07/2022 15:27 Python program to Print Pascal’s Triangle 28/07/2022 4:53 Extract Leaves of a Binary Tree in a Doubly Linked List 28/07/2022 9:25 2D Rotation in Computer Graphics 28/07/2022 9:31 Print the Sum of Two Numbers | Javascript Program 28/07/2022 19:02 CPU Scheduling Algorithms in Operating System 28/07/2022 5:16 Print a 2D array | C++ Program 27/07/2022 Cognizant Digital Nurture 2.0 Interview Experience 2022 What is Digital nurture 2.0? Digital Nurture 2.0 is a transformative training and recruitment approach for you while you are in the 6th semester, which… Read More Cognizant Write it Up Internship Interview Experiences Truminds Interview Experience for SDE (On-Campus) Round 1: It was an online test of two hours duration on HackerEarth platform. Consisted of 18 MCQs from CS subjects – Operating Systems, DSA,… Read More On-Campus Truminds Write it Up Interview Experiences Count minimum decrement prefix or suffix or increment all operations to make Array equal to 0 Given an array arr[] of size N. The task is to make all the array elements equal to zero by applying the minimum number of… Read More Arrays Greedy Find minimum Diameter BST having Sum equal to target K Given a binary tree and a target K, the task is to find the diameter of the minimum subtree having sum equal to K which… Read More Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Dynamic Programming Queue in Go Language Medium A queue is a linear structure that follows a particular order in which the operations are performed. The order is First In First Out (FIFO). … Read More Go Language Linked List Queue What is the Stack Size Estimation What is stack size estimation? Stack size estimation is the process of forecasting the size of the stack that an operating system might use for… Read More memory-management Picked Operating Systems Stack Maximum possible difference between two Subarrays after removing N elements from Array Given an array arr[] which is of 3*N size, the task is to remove N elements and divide the whole array into two equal parts… Read More Arrays loop Arrays Greedy Heap Quick Links Events at GeeksforGeeks Courses at GeeksforGeeks Write an Article Java Tutorial Python Tutorial Data Structures Tutorial Coding Practice Causes Of Rupee Falling Against US Dollar And Its Effect Whenever the value of a currency falls, it badly impacts that nation’s economy and results in a higher rate of inflation. The value of any… Read More Economics UPSC Hash Sort Algorithm There have always been arguments about how can be a sorting algorithm of linear time complexity be achieved, as all the traditional sorting algorithms are… Read More Hash Picked Sorting Nvidia Interview Experience for QA SDET Intern (On-Campus) Interview process held in Nov 2021 for internship duration of 5 months starting from Jan to Jun. Hackerrank test consists of 2 coding problems, OS,… Read More Nvidia On-Campus Write it Up Interview Experiences MAQ Software Interview Experience for Associate Software Engineer (Internship + FTE) 2023 Expert Round1 (Written Test): Their test was conducted on a special platform which we have to install on our pc before giving the test. The written… Read More MAQ Software Write it Up Internship Interview Experiences Count of Pairs with given sum in Rotated Sorted Array Given an array arr[] of distinct elements size N that is sorted and then around an unknown point, the task is to count the number… Read More Binary Search Arrays Searching Python List max() Method Python list max() function returns the maximum value present in the list. Python List max() Method Syntax: Syntax: max(listname) Parameter: listname : Name of list… Read More python-list python-list-functions Python Page 1 of 8,28512345...102030...»Last » What's New Data Structures & Algorithms- Self Paced Course View Details Complete Interview Preparation- Self Paced Course View Details Practice Problems, POTD Streak, Weekly Contests & More! View Details Quick Links Events at GeeksforGeeks Courses at GeeksforGeeks Write an Article Java Tutorial Python Tutorial Data Structures Tutorial Coding Practice Featured ArticlesView All Write It Up: Share Your Interview Experiences July 5, 2022 GEEK-O-LYMPICS 2022 – May The Geeks Force Be With You! June 30, 2022 Learn with GeeksforGeeks Course – Best Courses To Land Job In Your Dream Company June 18, 2022 GFG Summer Break Challenge 2022 – FREE Weekly DSA Coding Contest Series June 13, 2022 SDE SHEET – A Complete Guide for SDE Preparation February 21, 2022 Recommended Guest Blogs Must Do Coding Questions Company-wise Practice for cracking any coding interview Placements Complete Interview Preparation With Doubt Assistance GATE Computer Science Notes Machine Learning Django Tutorial Computer Science Projects Amazon SDE Test Series Company Interview Corner The C++ Standard Template Library (STL) Software Design Patterns SQL Tutorial Advanced Data Structures Improve your Coding Skills with PracticeTry It! A-143, 9th Floor, Sovereign Corporate Tower, Sector-136, Noida, Uttar Pradesh - 201305 feedback@geeksforgeeks.org Company About Us Careers In Media Contact Us Privacy Policy Copyright Policy Learn Algorithms Data Structures SDE Cheat Sheet Machine learning CS Subjects Video Tutorials Courses News Top News Technology Work & Career Business Finance Lifestyle Knowledge Languages Python Java CPP Golang C# SQL Kotlin Web Development Web Tutorials Django Tutorial HTML JavaScript Bootstrap ReactJS NodeJS Contribute Write an Article Improve an Article Pick Topics to Write Write Interview Experience Internships Video Internship @geeksforgeeks , Some rights reserved We use cookies to ensure you have the best browsing experience on our website. By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understood our Cookie Policy & Privacy Policy Got It ! Start Your Coding Journey Now! Login Registerhttp://geeksforgeeks.org/ GeeksforGeeks | A computer science portal for geeks Skip to content Courses For Working Professionals LIVE DSA Live Classes System Design Java Backend Development Full Stack LIVE Explore More Self-Paced DSA- Self Paced SDE Theory All Development Courses Explore More For Students LIVE Competitive Programming GATE Live Course 2023 Data Science Explore More Self-Paced DSA- Self Paced CIP JAVA / Python / C++ Explore More School Courses School Guide Python Programming Learn To Make Apps Explore more All Courses Tutorials Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Asymptotic Analysis Worst, Average and Best Cases Asymptotic Notations Little o and little omega notations Lower and Upper Bound Theory Analysis of Loops Solving Recurrences Amortized Analysis What does 'Space Complexity' mean ? Pseudo-polynomial Algorithms Polynomial Time Approximation Scheme A Time Complexity Question Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Bitwise Algorithms Randomized Algorithms Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch and Bound All Algorithms Data Structures Arrays Linked List Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings All Data Structures Interview Corner Company Preparation Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competititve Programming Design Patterns System Design Tutorial Multiple Choice Quizzes Languages C C++ Java Python C# JavaScript jQuery SQL PHP Scala Perl Go Language HTML CSS Kotlin ML & Data Science Machine Learning Data Science CS Subjects Mathematics Operating System DBMS Computer Networks Computer Organization and Architecture Theory of Computation Compiler Design Digital Logic Software Engineering GATE GATE Computer Science Notes Last Minute Notes GATE CS Solved Papers GATE CS Original Papers and Official Keys GATE 2021 Dates GATE CS 2021 Syllabus Important Topics for GATE CS Web Technologies HTML CSS JavaScript AngularJS ReactJS NodeJS Bootstrap jQuery PHP Software Designs Software Design Patterns System Design Tutorial School Learning School Programming Mathematics Number System Algebra Trigonometry Statistics Probability Geometry Mensuration Calculus Maths Notes (Class 8-12) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes Class 12 Notes NCERT Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution RD Sharma Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution Physics Notes (Class 8-11) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes Chemistry Notes Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes CS Exams/PSUs ISRO ISRO CS Original Papers and Official Keys ISRO CS Solved Papers ISRO CS Syllabus for Scientist/Engineer Exam UGC NET UGC NET CS Notes Paper II UGC NET CS Notes Paper III UGC NET CS Solved Papers Student Campus Ambassador Program School Ambassador Program Project Geek of the Month Campus Geek of the Month Placement Course Competititve Programming Testimonials Student Chapter Geek on the Top Internship Careers Jobs Apply for Jobs Post a Job Hire with Us Know about Jobathon Jobathon Practice All DSA Problems Problem of the Day Interview Series: Weekly Contests Bi-Wizard Coding: School Contests Contests and Events Practice SDE Sheet Curated DSA Lists Top 50 Array Problems Top 50 String Problems Top 50 Tree Problems Top 50 Graph Problems Top 50 DP Problems Write Come write articles for us and get featured Practice Learn and code with the best industry experts Premium Get access to ad-free content, doubt assistance and more! Jobs Come and find your dream job with us Geeks Digest Quizzes Geeks Campus Gblog Articles IDE Campus Mantri Home Saved Videos Courses GBlog Puzzles What's New ? Change Language Data Structures Algorithms Interview Preparation Topic-wise Practice C++ Java Python Competitive Programming Machine Learning HTML SDE Sheet Puzzles GFG School Projects ▲ Gblog GeeksforGeeks Job-A-Thon Exclusive – Hiring Challenge For Amazon Alexa Getting a job in Product Based Companies is a dream come true for everyone and when we talk about Amazon, every one of us wants… Read More Complete Guide on Arrays Interview Preparation The dream of every programmer is to become not just a good, but also a great programmer. We all want to achieve our goals and… Read More Interview Tips interview-preparation interview-questions Arrays Data Structures GBlog Most In-Demand Skills to Become a Full Stack Developer Full-stack developers are one of the most trending and responsible sectors in the field of software development. The reason is, that they need to sound… Read More GBlog Web Technologies VideosExplore 8:28 C++ Program to Check if a Given Number is Ugly Number or not 29/07/2022 8:28 2D Reflection in Computer Graphics 29/07/2022 13:03 Java Program to Print all Interleavings of given Two Strings 29/07/2022 19:36 Preemptive Priority CPU Scheduling Algorithm 29/07/2022 15:27 Python program to Print Pascal’s Triangle 28/07/2022 4:53 Extract Leaves of a Binary Tree in a Doubly Linked List 28/07/2022 9:25 2D Rotation in Computer Graphics 28/07/2022 9:31 Print the Sum of Two Numbers | Javascript Program 28/07/2022 19:02 CPU Scheduling Algorithms in Operating System 28/07/2022 5:16 Print a 2D array | C++ Program 27/07/2022 Cognizant Digital Nurture 2.0 Interview Experience 2022 What is Digital nurture 2.0? Digital Nurture 2.0 is a transformative training and recruitment approach for you while you are in the 6th semester, which… Read More Cognizant Write it Up Internship Interview Experiences Truminds Interview Experience for SDE (On-Campus) Round 1: It was an online test of two hours duration on HackerEarth platform. Consisted of 18 MCQs from CS subjects – Operating Systems, DSA,… Read More On-Campus Truminds Write it Up Interview Experiences Count minimum decrement prefix or suffix or increment all operations to make Array equal to 0 Given an array arr[] of size N. The task is to make all the array elements equal to zero by applying the minimum number of… Read More Arrays Greedy Find minimum Diameter BST having Sum equal to target K Given a binary tree and a target K, the task is to find the diameter of the minimum subtree having sum equal to K which… Read More Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Dynamic Programming Queue in Go Language Medium A queue is a linear structure that follows a particular order in which the operations are performed. The order is First In First Out (FIFO). … Read More Go Language Linked List Queue What is the Stack Size Estimation What is stack size estimation? Stack size estimation is the process of forecasting the size of the stack that an operating system might use for… Read More memory-management Picked Operating Systems Stack Maximum possible difference between two Subarrays after removing N elements from Array Given an array arr[] which is of 3*N size, the task is to remove N elements and divide the whole array into two equal parts… Read More Arrays loop Arrays Greedy Heap Quick Links Events at GeeksforGeeks Courses at GeeksforGeeks Write an Article Java Tutorial Python Tutorial Data Structures Tutorial Coding Practice Causes Of Rupee Falling Against US Dollar And Its Effect Whenever the value of a currency falls, it badly impacts that nation’s economy and results in a higher rate of inflation. The value of any… Read More Economics UPSC Hash Sort Algorithm There have always been arguments about how can be a sorting algorithm of linear time complexity be achieved, as all the traditional sorting algorithms are… Read More Hash Picked Sorting Nvidia Interview Experience for QA SDET Intern (On-Campus) Interview process held in Nov 2021 for internship duration of 5 months starting from Jan to Jun. Hackerrank test consists of 2 coding problems, OS,… Read More Nvidia On-Campus Write it Up Interview Experiences MAQ Software Interview Experience for Associate Software Engineer (Internship + FTE) 2023 Expert Round1 (Written Test): Their test was conducted on a special platform which we have to install on our pc before giving the test. The written… Read More MAQ Software Write it Up Internship Interview Experiences Count of Pairs with given sum in Rotated Sorted Array Given an array arr[] of distinct elements size N that is sorted and then around an unknown point, the task is to count the number… Read More Binary Search Arrays Searching Python List max() Method Python list max() function returns the maximum value present in the list. Python List max() Method Syntax: Syntax: max(listname) Parameter: listname : Name of list… Read More python-list python-list-functions Python Page 1 of 8,28512345...102030...»Last » What's New Data Structures & Algorithms- Self Paced Course View Details Complete Interview Preparation- Self Paced Course View Details Practice Problems, POTD Streak, Weekly Contests & More! View Details Quick Links Events at GeeksforGeeks Courses at GeeksforGeeks Write an Article Java Tutorial Python Tutorial Data Structures Tutorial Coding Practice Featured ArticlesView All Write It Up: Share Your Interview Experiences July 5, 2022 GEEK-O-LYMPICS 2022 – May The Geeks Force Be With You! June 30, 2022 Learn with GeeksforGeeks Course – Best Courses To Land Job In Your Dream Company June 18, 2022 GFG Summer Break Challenge 2022 – FREE Weekly DSA Coding Contest Series June 13, 2022 SDE SHEET – A Complete Guide for SDE Preparation February 21, 2022 Recommended Guest Blogs Must Do Coding Questions Company-wise Practice for cracking any coding interview Placements Complete Interview Preparation With Doubt Assistance GATE Computer Science Notes Machine Learning Django Tutorial Computer Science Projects Amazon SDE Test Series Company Interview Corner The C++ Standard Template Library (STL) Software Design Patterns SQL Tutorial Advanced Data Structures Improve your Coding Skills with PracticeTry It! A-143, 9th Floor, Sovereign Corporate Tower, Sector-136, Noida, Uttar Pradesh - 201305 feedback@geeksforgeeks.org Company About Us Careers In Media Contact Us Privacy Policy Copyright Policy Learn Algorithms Data Structures SDE Cheat Sheet Machine learning CS Subjects Video Tutorials Courses News Top News Technology Work & Career Business Finance Lifestyle Knowledge Languages Python Java CPP Golang C# SQL Kotlin Web Development Web Tutorials Django Tutorial HTML JavaScript Bootstrap ReactJS NodeJS Contribute Write an Article Improve an Article Pick Topics to Write Write Interview Experience Internships Video Internship @geeksforgeeks , Some rights reserved We use cookies to ensure you have the best browsing experience on our website. By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understood our Cookie Policy & Privacy Policy Got It ! Start Your Coding Journey Now! Login Registerhttps://www.geeksforgeeks.org/?ref=ghm GeeksforGeeks | A computer science portal for geeks Skip to content Tutorials Practice DS & Algo. Must Do Questions DSA Topic-wise DSA Company-wise Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Asymptotic Analysis Worst, Average and Best Cases Asymptotic Notations Little o and little omega notations Lower and Upper Bound Theory Analysis of Loops Solving Recurrences Amortized Analysis What does 'Space Complexity' mean ? Pseudo-polynomial Algorithms Polynomial Time Approximation Scheme A Time Complexity Question Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Bitwise Algorithms Randomized Algorithms Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch and Bound All Algorithms Data Structures Arrays Linked List Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings All Data Structures Interview Corner Company Preparation Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competititve Programming Design Patterns System Design Tutorial Multiple Choice Quizzes Languages C C++ Java Python C# JavaScript jQuery SQL PHP Scala Perl Go Language HTML CSS Kotlin CS Subjects Mathematics Operating System DBMS Computer Networks Computer Organization and Architecture Theory of Computation Compiler Design Digital Logic Software Engineering GATE GATE Computer Science Notes Last Minute Notes GATE CS Solved Papers GATE CS Original Papers and Official Keys GATE 2021 Dates GATE CS 2021 Syllabus Important Topics for GATE CS Web Technologies HTML CSS JavaScript AngularJS ReactJS NodeJS Bootstrap jQuery PHP Software Designs Software Design Patterns System Design Tutorial School Learning School Programming Mathematics Number System Algebra Trigonometry Statistics Probability Geometry Mensuration Calculus Maths Notes (Class 8-12) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes Class 12 Notes NCERT Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution RD Sharma Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution Physics Notes (Class 8-11) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes ISRO CS ISRO CS Solved Papers ISRO CS Original Papers and Official Keys ISRO CS Syllabus for Scientist/Engineer Exam UGC NET CS UGC NET CS Notes Paper II UGC NET CS Notes Paper III UGC NET CS Solved Papers Student Campus Ambassador Program School Ambassador Program Project Geek of the Month Campus Geek of the Month Placement Course Competititve Programming Testimonials Geek on the Top Careers Internship Jobs Apply for Jobs Post a Job Courses Write Come write articles for us and get featured Practice Learn and code with the best industry experts Premium Get access to ad-free content, doubt assistance and more! Jobs Come and find your dream job with us Geeks Digest Quizzes Geeks Campus Gblog Articles IDE Campus Mantri Home Saved Videos Courses GBlog Puzzles What's New ? Change Language Data Structures Algorithms Interview Preparation Topic-wise Practice C++ Java Python Competitive Programming Machine Learning Web Development Puzzles Project Ideas GFG School ▲ Gblog Must Do Coding Questions for Product Based Companies As the placement season is back, GeeksforGeeks is here to help you crack the interview. We have selected some most commonly asked and MUST DO… Read More Top 10 Java Frameworks To Learn in 2022 From basic “Hello World” code to enterprise application-level code, the common thing is the choice of the most suitable language. Java stands in the list… Read More GBlog Java 7 Reasons Why You Should Learn SQL in 2022 SQL is pronounced as “sequel” by some while “S-Q-L” by others. SQL is an acronym for Structured Query Language, a standard and widely accepted language… Read More GBlog SQL VideosExplore 10:49 Detection Outliers using IQR and Z-score in ML 05/02/2022 9:53 10 Tips & Tricks to Crack Internships & Placements 03/02/2022 11:34 How to Implement Picture in Picture (PIP) in Flutter? 02/02/2022 13:43 Bresenham's Line Algorithm 04/02/2022 27:26 Push Notification in Flutter using Firebase 30/01/2022 7:24 Create Magic 8 Ball Application in Flutter 26/01/2022 20:26 Machine Learning - Implementation of Data Scaling Using Python 16/01/2022 62:51 How to Perform CRUD Operation using SQLite in Flutter? 12/01/2022 11:47 Machine Learning - What and Why Data Scaling? 11/01/2022 5:23 Getting Started With UX Designing 09/01/2022 Minimum sum of all absolute differences of same column elements in adjacent rows in a given Matrix Given a matrix mat[][] having N rows and M columns, the task is to find the minimum distance between two adjacent rows where the distance… Read More Mathematical Matrix Pattern Searching Minimum rotations that have maximum elements with value at most its index Given an array arr[] of size N, the array can be rotated any number of times such that after rotation, each element of the array… Read More rotation Arrays Mathematical Find all strings in lexicographic order possible by replacing digits with ‘x’, ‘y’ or ‘z’ Given a string str, consisting of lower case English alphabets and digits(0-9), the task is to print all possible strings in lexicographic order that can… Read More lexicographic-ordering Backtracking Strings Binary Tree Iterator for Inorder Traversal Easy Given a Binary Tree and an input array. The task is to create an Iterator that utilizes next() and hasNext() functions to perform Inorder traversal… Read More Binary Tree cpp-iterator Inorder Traversal Tree Traversals Algorithms Tree Find length of smallest substring of a given string which contains another string as subsequence Medium Given two strings A and B, the task is to find the smallest substring of A having B as a subsequence. If there are multiple… Read More subsequence substring Dynamic Programming Hash Pattern Searching Searching Strings Bitwise Binary Search algorithm Pre-requisite: Binary Search Bitwise Binary Search algorithm is a modified version of Binary Search based on the following idea: Every number can be represented as… Read More Binary Search Arrays Bit Magic Searching Capitalize 1st character of all words having at least K characters Given string str representing a sentence, and an integer K, the task is to capitalize all the words in the given sentence having at least… Read More frequency-counting School Programming Strings Quick Links Events at GeeksforGeeks Courses at GeeksforGeeks Write an Article Java Tutorial Python Tutorial Data Structures Tutorial Coding Practice Toyota Connected Interview Experience for Associate Engineer | On-Campus 2021 Toyota connected visited our campus for Associate Engineer profile in Nov, 2021. Round 1(HireVue Round): This round consisted of 5 question. 3 were general HR/Managerial… Read More On-Campus Toyota Interview Experiences Fiserv’s Interview Experience for Technical Analyst All the students from B.Tech CSE/IT, who had CGPA 7.5 and above and with active backlogs were allowed to apply for this drive. They came… Read More Fiserv Interview Experiences LinkedIn Interview Experience for SRE Intern (Off-Campus) Basic It started by applying on the LinkedIn job posting page for LinkedIn’s SRE Intern position and later got a mail from a recruiter to appear… Read More Linkedin Off-Campus Internship Interview Experiences Myntra Interview Experience (Off-Campus) 2021 Medium I applied through referral a month back for the position of Software Engineer – Frontend (React JS). I’ve total 1 YOE and the recruitment process… Read More Myntra Off-Campus Interview Experiences Infosys Interview Experience for System Engineer (Off-Campus) There were two rounds in the process. Round 1: There was an online assessment of 100 minutes. The test pattern is mentioned below. Section 1… Read More Infosys Off-Campus Interview Experiences Amazon Interview Experience (On-Campus) Hard ONLINE ASSESSMENT – This Round consists of 4 sections and you need to perform well in all of these. A) DEBUGGING (20 mins) – You… Read More Amazon On-Campus Interview Experiences Page 1 of 7,51212345...102030...»Last » What's New Must Do Coding Questions - Self Paced View Details Competitive Programming Live Classes for Students View Details Complete Interview Preparation View Details Quick Links Events at GeeksforGeeks Courses at GeeksforGeeks Write an Article Java Tutorial Python Tutorial Data Structures Tutorial Coding Practice Featured ArticlesView All Get Hired With GeeksforGeeks and Win Exciting Rewards! October 30, 2021 Master the Coding Interview – Contest Series Based On Real Interviews October 5, 2021 Recently Asked Interview Questions in Product Based Companies May 11, 2021 Bridge the Gap Between Engineering and Your Dream Job – Complete Interview Preparation May 1, 2021 100 Days of Code – A Complete Guide For Beginners and Experienced May 1, 2021 Recommended Guest Blogs Must Do Coding Questions Company-wise Practice for cracking any coding interview Placements Complete Interview Preparation With Doubt Assistance GATE Computer Science Notes Machine Learning Django Tutorial Computer Science Projects Amazon SDE Test Series Company Interview Corner The C++ Standard Template Library (STL) Software Design Patterns SQL Tutorial Advanced Data Structures × 5th Floor, A-118, Sector-136, Noida, Uttar Pradesh - 201305 feedback@geeksforgeeks.org Company About Us Careers Privacy Policy Contact Us Copyright Policy Learn Algorithms Data Structures Languages CS Subjects Video Tutorials Web Development Web Tutorials HTML CSS JavaScript Bootstrap Contribute Write an Article Write Interview Experience Internships Videos @geeksforgeeks , Some rights reserved We use cookies to ensure you have the best browsing experience on our website. By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understood our Cookie Policy & Privacy Policy Got It ! Start Your Coding Journey Now! Login Register