https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/geeksforgeeks-jobathon-exclusive-hiring-challenge-for-amazon-alexa/?ref=ghb GeeksforGeeks Job-A-Thon Exclusive – Hiring Challenge For Amazon Alexa - GeeksforGeeks Skip to content Courses For Working Professionals LIVE DSA Live Classes System Design Java Backend Development Full Stack LIVE Explore More Self-Paced DSA- Self Paced SDE Theory All Development Courses Explore More For Students LIVE Competitive Programming GATE Live Course 2023 Data Science Explore More Self-Paced DSA- Self Paced CIP JAVA / Python / C++ Explore More School Courses School Guide Python Programming Learn To Make Apps Explore more All Courses Tutorials Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Asymptotic Analysis Worst, Average and Best Cases Asymptotic Notations Little o and little omega notations Lower and Upper Bound Theory Analysis of Loops Solving Recurrences Amortized Analysis What does 'Space Complexity' mean ? Pseudo-polynomial Algorithms Polynomial Time Approximation Scheme A Time Complexity Question Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Bitwise Algorithms Randomized Algorithms Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch and Bound All Algorithms Data Structures Arrays Linked List Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings All Data Structures Interview Corner Company Preparation Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competititve Programming Design Patterns System Design Tutorial Multiple Choice Quizzes Languages C C++ Java Python C# JavaScript jQuery SQL PHP Scala Perl Go Language HTML CSS Kotlin ML & Data Science Machine Learning Data Science CS Subjects Mathematics Operating System DBMS Computer Networks Computer Organization and Architecture Theory of Computation Compiler Design Digital Logic Software Engineering GATE GATE Computer Science Notes Last Minute Notes GATE CS Solved Papers GATE CS Original Papers and Official Keys GATE 2021 Dates GATE CS 2021 Syllabus Important Topics for GATE CS Web Technologies HTML CSS JavaScript AngularJS ReactJS NodeJS Bootstrap jQuery PHP Software Designs Software Design Patterns System Design Tutorial School Learning School Programming Mathematics Number System Algebra Trigonometry Statistics Probability Geometry Mensuration Calculus Maths Notes (Class 8-12) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes Class 12 Notes NCERT Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution RD Sharma Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution Physics Notes (Class 8-11) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes Chemistry Notes Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes CS Exams/PSUs ISRO ISRO CS Original Papers and Official Keys ISRO CS Solved Papers ISRO CS Syllabus for Scientist/Engineer Exam UGC NET UGC NET CS Notes Paper II UGC NET CS Notes Paper III UGC NET CS Solved Papers Student Campus Ambassador Program School Ambassador Program Project Geek of the Month Campus Geek of the Month Placement Course Competititve Programming Testimonials Student Chapter Geek on the Top Internship Careers Jobs Apply for Jobs Post a Job Hire with Us Know about Jobathon Jobathon Practice All DSA Problems Problem of the Day Interview Series: Weekly Contests Bi-Wizard Coding: School Contests Contests and Events Practice SDE Sheet Curated DSA Lists Top 50 Array Problems Top 50 String Problems Top 50 Tree Problems Top 50 Graph Problems Top 50 DP Problems Write Come write articles for us and get featured Practice Learn and code with the best industry experts Premium Get access to ad-free content, doubt assistance and more! Jobs Come and find your dream job with us Geeks Digest Quizzes Geeks Campus Gblog Articles IDE Campus Mantri Home Saved Videos Courses GBlog Puzzles What's New ? Change Language Data Structures Algorithms Interview Preparation Topic-wise Practice C++ Java Python Competitive Programming Machine Learning HTML SDE Sheet Puzzles GFG School Projects Related Articles ▲ Related Articles GeeksforGeeks Job-A-Thon Exclusive – Hiring Challenge For Amazon Alexa Must Do Coding Questions for Companies like Amazon, Microsoft, Adobe, … Resume Writing For Internship Must Do Coding Questions Company-wise Practice for cracking any coding interview How to begin with Competitive Programming? Top 10 Algorithms and Data Structures for Competitive Programming N Queen Problem | Backtracking-3 Printing all solutions in N-Queen Problem Warnsdorff’s algorithm for Knight’s tour problem The Knight’s tour problem | Backtracking-1 Rat in a Maze | Backtracking-2 Count number of ways to reach destination in a Maze Count all possible paths from top left to bottom right of a mXn matrix Print all possible paths from top left to bottom right of a mXn matrix Unique paths in a Grid with Obstacles Unique paths covering every non-obstacle block exactly once in a grid Depth First Search or DFS for a Graph Breadth First Search or BFS for a Graph Level Order Binary Tree Traversal Tree Traversals (Inorder, Preorder and Postorder) Inorder Tree Traversal without Recursion Inorder Tree Traversal without recursion and without stack! Print Postorder traversal from given Inorder and Preorder traversals Construct Tree from given Inorder and Preorder traversals Must Do Coding Questions for Product Based Companies Top 10 Projects For Beginners To Practice HTML and CSS Skills GeeksforGeeks Job-A-Thon Exclusive – Hiring Challenge For Amazon Alexa Must Do Coding Questions for Companies like Amazon, Microsoft, Adobe, … Resume Writing For Internship Must Do Coding Questions Company-wise Practice for cracking any coding interview How to begin with Competitive Programming? Top 10 Algorithms and Data Structures for Competitive Programming N Queen Problem | Backtracking-3 Printing all solutions in N-Queen Problem Warnsdorff’s algorithm for Knight’s tour problem The Knight’s tour problem | Backtracking-1 Rat in a Maze | Backtracking-2 Count number of ways to reach destination in a Maze Count all possible paths from top left to bottom right of a mXn matrix Print all possible paths from top left to bottom right of a mXn matrix Unique paths in a Grid with Obstacles Unique paths covering every non-obstacle block exactly once in a grid Depth First Search or DFS for a Graph Breadth First Search or BFS for a Graph Level Order Binary Tree Traversal Tree Traversals (Inorder, Preorder and Postorder) Inorder Tree Traversal without Recursion Inorder Tree Traversal without recursion and without stack! Print Postorder traversal from given Inorder and Preorder traversals Construct Tree from given Inorder and Preorder traversals Must Do Coding Questions for Product Based Companies Top 10 Projects For Beginners To Practice HTML and CSS Skills GeeksforGeeks Job-A-Thon Exclusive – Hiring Challenge For Amazon Alexa View Discussion Improve Article Save Article Like Article Difficulty Level : Medium Getting a job in Product Based Companies is a dream come true for everyone and when we talk about Amazon, every one of us wants to work with it. Amazon is one of the big MNCs and is referred to as “one of the most influential economic and cultural forces in the world”. Seeing yourself working at Amazon in an SDE role is a big achievement in itself. To fulfill your dream, GeeksforGeeks has brought Job-A-Thon Exclusive: Hiring Challenge 2 for Amazon Alexa for different SDE roles – SDET, SDE-1 & SDE – 2. The registration for this hiring challenge is totally FREE. If you have missed the first chance or didn’t get cleared then we have a second chance for you! Challenge Details Hiring Challenge 2 for Amazon Alexa is an exclusive contest that gives you an opportunity to work with Amazon in an SDE role. In this challenge, there will be coding questions on DSA and MCQ questions on programming language, etc. Date and Time: From 5th August at 8:00 PM IST to 5th August at 10:30 PM IST Registration Link: Job-A-Thon Exclusive: Hiring Challenge 2 for Amazon Alexa Job Description: Amazon (Alexa) | SDET | SDE 1 | SDE 2 | Job-A-Thon How to Prepare for the Amazon Hiring Challenge? Preparing for any kind of challenge is a daunting task on its own, especially if you lack the resources to prepare from. But what if we say that we’ve all the materials you require to ace our Job-A-Thon Exclusive: Hiring Challenge for Amazon Alexa with flying colors. GeeksforGeeks has prepared 2 FREE resources for you from which you can prepare the programming questions that top tech companies will give you in the interview. GeeksforGeeks SDE Sheet Start your preparation by going through our SDE Sheet and solving the problems in it. GeeksforGeeks’ SDE Sheet comprises hand-picked top coding interview questions from various interview experience and Data Structures & Algorithms areas. These are some of the most often asked coding interview questions in firms like Amazon, Microsoft, Flipkart, and others, and they cover practically all of the ideas relevant to Data Structures and Algorithms. Not only does it have coding questions but also it covers all the segments round-wise like MCQs, DSA (Coding Questions), Video Solutions, CS Subjects, Puzzles, System Design, and Projects. This is the first resource you need to start your contest preparation. Along with this, you need to master coding interview scenarios. And that can be done with GFG’s Interview Series. GeeksforGeeks Interview Series (Partnered with Amazon) GeeksforGeeks presents FREE Interview Series (partnered with Amazon). It is a recurring weekly Contest Series that will help you to simulate the Coding Interview Rounds of Top IT Giants. GFG’s DSA contest ‘Interview Series’ is held every Sunday at 7 PM IST. You can watch live video editorials, view your progress on the monthly leaderboard, earn GeekBits, redeem rewards, and enjoy many other benefits. How to Register For Amazon Hiring Challenge? The registration process for this Job-A-Thon Exclusive: Hiring Challenge for Amazon Alexa is very easy and FREE as mentioned below: Go to the contest page and signup for our portal if you are not registered. Before registering for the contest, first submit your details here to be eligible for the interview process. Click on Apply button after filling in all the required details. Then click on the Register button on the Contest Page to get yourself registered for the hiring process. Instructions Only individual participation is allowed in this Job-A-Thon. Interview shortlisting will be done by specific companies based on their own criteria. Languages supported for the DSA problems are C++, Java, and Python. Each submission will be tested based on our critical test data. There is a 5% penalty for each wrong submission. For example, if a problem is 100 marks and a participant makes a wrong submission, his marks are reduced to 95. After the next wrong submission of the same problem, his marks are further reduced to 90.25 and so on. Therefore, it is suggested to use ‘Compile and Test’ against sample test cases before each submission. Please refrain from discussing strategy during the contest. All submissions are run through a plagiarism detector. Any case of code plagiarism will reduce the score of the concerned participants to 0. This may lead to modifications in the leaderboard after the contest. Make sure other participants don’t have access to your code. If you use any other online coding environment, you are responsible for the privacy of your code. Marks of MCQ-type questions are added after the contest is over. Entries submitted by candidates after the contest if closed will not be considered. GeeksforGeeks holds the right to disqualify any participant at any stage of the process if the participant(s) are deemed to be acting fraudulently or otherwise. In case of any dispute over rankings and leaderboard, the decision of GeeksforGeeks shall be final. It is advised to attempt the Sample Geeks Challenge to get familiar with the GeeksforGeeks coding environment. Job-A-Thon – Partnered with Amazon is going to be very fruitful for all the candidates from their career perspectives and can help them to get placed at Amazon (a dream company to work with) without any hassle! So, get ready for the contest and participate in this hiring challenge wholeheartedly! My Personal Notes arrow_drop_up Save Like Next Must Do Coding Questions for Companies like Amazon, Microsoft, Adobe, ... Recommended Articles Page : GeeksforGeeks Jobathon - Are You Ready For This Hiring Challenge? 17, Jan 22 Geeks Coding Challenge [GCC 2019] - A Three Day Coding Challenge By GeeksforGeeks 06, Dec 19 DSA Internship Hiring Challenge For Freshers By GeeksforGeeks 08, Jun 22 Awaken the Memer in You - GFG Hiring Challenge 08, Dec 21 Get Premium GFG Courses at Best Prices - Geek Week 2021 Exclusive! 19, Oct 21 Write From Home Challenge - Technical Content Writing Event By GeeksforGeeks 04, Apr 20 GeeksforGeeks 24 Hour Sprint Challenge - Showcase Your Excellence 06, Apr 21 Code India Code - Challenge Your Coding Skills with GeeksforGeeks 10, Feb 22 A basic Python Programming Challenge 09, Apr 16 Google Developer Student Clubs Solution Challenge 2021 01, Feb 21 100 Days of Code with GFG - Get Committed to a Challenge! 18, Sep 21 7 Best Coding Challenge Websites in 2020 29, Feb 20 GFG Summer Break Challenge 2022 - FREE Weekly DSA Coding Contest Series 13, Jun 22 Geek Streak - 24 Days POTD Challenge 26, Jun 22 How Technology is Transforming the Hiring Process? 30, Aug 21 Simplify Your Hiring Process with GFG “Get Hired” Job Portal 24, Jun 22 Amazon SDE Sheet - A Guide for Amazon SDE Interview Preparation 14, Jul 22 How to add articles to “To Do” and “Done” lists on GeeksforGeeks? 06, Apr 16 What are the benefits of interning as content writer at GeeksforGeeks? 24, Mar 17 How Content Writing at GeeksforGeeks works? 02, Aug 18 GRE 2021 General Test Series | GeeksforGeeks 11, Mar 19 Geek Week – Celebrate The Biggest Programming Festival With GeeksforGeeks 10, Oct 19 System Design - Live Course By GeeksforGeeks 04, Mar 21 Black Friday Sale - Programmers Have Carts, GeeksforGeeks Has Deals! 25, Nov 19 Article Contributed By : GeeksforGeeks Vote for difficulty Current difficulty : Medium Easy Normal Medium Hard Expert Improved By : sagarikabiswas Article Tags : GBlog Report Issue Writing code in comment? Please use ide.geeksforgeeks.org, generate link and share the link here. Load Comments What's New Practice Problems, POTD Streak, Weekly Contests & More! View Details Data Structures & Algorithms- Self Paced Course View Details Complete Interview Preparation- Self Paced Course View Details Improve your Coding Skills with PracticeTry It! A-143, 9th Floor, Sovereign Corporate Tower, Sector-136, Noida, Uttar Pradesh - 201305 feedback@geeksforgeeks.org Company About Us Careers In Media Contact Us Privacy Policy Copyright Policy Learn Algorithms Data Structures SDE Cheat Sheet Machine learning CS Subjects Video Tutorials Courses News Top News Technology Work & Career Business Finance Lifestyle Knowledge Languages Python Java CPP Golang C# SQL Kotlin Web Development Web Tutorials Django Tutorial HTML JavaScript Bootstrap ReactJS NodeJS Contribute Write an Article Improve an Article Pick Topics to Write Write Interview Experience Internships Video Internship @geeksforgeeks , Some rights reserved We use cookies to ensure you have the best browsing experience on our website. By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understood our Cookie Policy & Privacy Policy Got It ! Start Your Coding Journey Now! Login Registerhttps://www.geeksforgeeks.org/geeksforgeeks-jobathon-exclusive-hiring-challenge-for-amazon-alexa/ GeeksforGeeks Job-A-Thon Exclusive – Hiring Challenge For Amazon Alexa - GeeksforGeeks Skip to content Courses For Working Professionals LIVE DSA Live Classes System Design Java Backend Development Full Stack LIVE Explore More Self-Paced DSA- Self Paced SDE Theory All Development Courses Explore More For Students LIVE Competitive Programming GATE Live Course 2023 Data Science Explore More Self-Paced DSA- Self Paced CIP JAVA / Python / C++ Explore More School Courses School Guide Python Programming Learn To Make Apps Explore more All Courses Tutorials Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Asymptotic Analysis Worst, Average and Best Cases Asymptotic Notations Little o and little omega notations Lower and Upper Bound Theory Analysis of Loops Solving Recurrences Amortized Analysis What does 'Space Complexity' mean ? Pseudo-polynomial Algorithms Polynomial Time Approximation Scheme A Time Complexity Question Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Bitwise Algorithms Randomized Algorithms Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch and Bound All Algorithms Data Structures Arrays Linked List Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings All Data Structures Interview Corner Company Preparation Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competititve Programming Design Patterns System Design Tutorial Multiple Choice Quizzes Languages C C++ Java Python C# JavaScript jQuery SQL PHP Scala Perl Go Language HTML CSS Kotlin ML & Data Science Machine Learning Data Science CS Subjects Mathematics Operating System DBMS Computer Networks Computer Organization and Architecture Theory of Computation Compiler Design Digital Logic Software Engineering GATE GATE Computer Science Notes Last Minute Notes GATE CS Solved Papers GATE CS Original Papers and Official Keys GATE 2021 Dates GATE CS 2021 Syllabus Important Topics for GATE CS Web Technologies HTML CSS JavaScript AngularJS ReactJS NodeJS Bootstrap jQuery PHP Software Designs Software Design Patterns System Design Tutorial School Learning School Programming Mathematics Number System Algebra Trigonometry Statistics Probability Geometry Mensuration Calculus Maths Notes (Class 8-12) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes Class 12 Notes NCERT Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution RD Sharma Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution Physics Notes (Class 8-11) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes Chemistry Notes Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes CS Exams/PSUs ISRO ISRO CS Original Papers and Official Keys ISRO CS Solved Papers ISRO CS Syllabus for Scientist/Engineer Exam UGC NET UGC NET CS Notes Paper II UGC NET CS Notes Paper III UGC NET CS Solved Papers Student Campus Ambassador Program School Ambassador Program Project Geek of the Month Campus Geek of the Month Placement Course Competititve Programming Testimonials Student Chapter Geek on the Top Internship Careers Jobs Apply for Jobs Post a Job Hire with Us Know about Jobathon Jobathon Practice All DSA Problems Problem of the Day Interview Series: Weekly Contests Bi-Wizard Coding: School Contests Contests and Events Practice SDE Sheet Curated DSA Lists Top 50 Array Problems Top 50 String Problems Top 50 Tree Problems Top 50 Graph Problems Top 50 DP Problems Write Come write articles for us and get featured Practice Learn and code with the best industry experts Premium Get access to ad-free content, doubt assistance and more! Jobs Come and find your dream job with us Geeks Digest Quizzes Geeks Campus Gblog Articles IDE Campus Mantri Home Saved Videos Courses GBlog Puzzles What's New ? Change Language Data Structures Algorithms Interview Preparation Topic-wise Practice C++ Java Python Competitive Programming Machine Learning HTML SDE Sheet Puzzles GFG School Projects Related Articles ▲ Related Articles GeeksforGeeks Job-A-Thon Exclusive – Hiring Challenge For Amazon Alexa Must Do Coding Questions for Companies like Amazon, Microsoft, Adobe, … Resume Writing For Internship Must Do Coding Questions Company-wise Practice for cracking any coding interview How to begin with Competitive Programming? Top 10 Algorithms and Data Structures for Competitive Programming N Queen Problem | Backtracking-3 Printing all solutions in N-Queen Problem Warnsdorff’s algorithm for Knight’s tour problem The Knight’s tour problem | Backtracking-1 Rat in a Maze | Backtracking-2 Count number of ways to reach destination in a Maze Count all possible paths from top left to bottom right of a mXn matrix Print all possible paths from top left to bottom right of a mXn matrix Unique paths in a Grid with Obstacles Unique paths covering every non-obstacle block exactly once in a grid Depth First Search or DFS for a Graph Breadth First Search or BFS for a Graph Level Order Binary Tree Traversal Tree Traversals (Inorder, Preorder and Postorder) Inorder Tree Traversal without Recursion Inorder Tree Traversal without recursion and without stack! Print Postorder traversal from given Inorder and Preorder traversals Construct Tree from given Inorder and Preorder traversals Must Do Coding Questions for Product Based Companies Top 10 Projects For Beginners To Practice HTML and CSS Skills GeeksforGeeks Job-A-Thon Exclusive – Hiring Challenge For Amazon Alexa Must Do Coding Questions for Companies like Amazon, Microsoft, Adobe, … Resume Writing For Internship Must Do Coding Questions Company-wise Practice for cracking any coding interview How to begin with Competitive Programming? Top 10 Algorithms and Data Structures for Competitive Programming N Queen Problem | Backtracking-3 Printing all solutions in N-Queen Problem Warnsdorff’s algorithm for Knight’s tour problem The Knight’s tour problem | Backtracking-1 Rat in a Maze | Backtracking-2 Count number of ways to reach destination in a Maze Count all possible paths from top left to bottom right of a mXn matrix Print all possible paths from top left to bottom right of a mXn matrix Unique paths in a Grid with Obstacles Unique paths covering every non-obstacle block exactly once in a grid Depth First Search or DFS for a Graph Breadth First Search or BFS for a Graph Level Order Binary Tree Traversal Tree Traversals (Inorder, Preorder and Postorder) Inorder Tree Traversal without Recursion Inorder Tree Traversal without recursion and without stack! Print Postorder traversal from given Inorder and Preorder traversals Construct Tree from given Inorder and Preorder traversals Must Do Coding Questions for Product Based Companies Top 10 Projects For Beginners To Practice HTML and CSS Skills GeeksforGeeks Job-A-Thon Exclusive – Hiring Challenge For Amazon Alexa View Discussion Improve Article Save Article Like Article Difficulty Level : Medium Getting a job in Product Based Companies is a dream come true for everyone and when we talk about Amazon, every one of us wants to work with it. Amazon is one of the big MNCs and is referred to as “one of the most influential economic and cultural forces in the world”. Seeing yourself working at Amazon in an SDE role is a big achievement in itself. To fulfill your dream, GeeksforGeeks has brought Job-A-Thon Exclusive: Hiring Challenge 2 for Amazon Alexa for different SDE roles – SDET, SDE-1 & SDE – 2. The registration for this hiring challenge is totally FREE. If you have missed the first chance or didn’t get cleared then we have a second chance for you! Challenge Details Hiring Challenge 2 for Amazon Alexa is an exclusive contest that gives you an opportunity to work with Amazon in an SDE role. In this challenge, there will be coding questions on DSA and MCQ questions on programming language, etc. Date and Time: From 5th August at 8:00 PM IST to 5th August at 10:30 PM IST Registration Link: Job-A-Thon Exclusive: Hiring Challenge 2 for Amazon Alexa Job Description: Amazon (Alexa) | SDET | SDE 1 | SDE 2 | Job-A-Thon How to Prepare for the Amazon Hiring Challenge? Preparing for any kind of challenge is a daunting task on its own, especially if you lack the resources to prepare from. But what if we say that we’ve all the materials you require to ace our Job-A-Thon Exclusive: Hiring Challenge for Amazon Alexa with flying colors. GeeksforGeeks has prepared 2 FREE resources for you from which you can prepare the programming questions that top tech companies will give you in the interview. GeeksforGeeks SDE Sheet Start your preparation by going through our SDE Sheet and solving the problems in it. GeeksforGeeks’ SDE Sheet comprises hand-picked top coding interview questions from various interview experience and Data Structures & Algorithms areas. These are some of the most often asked coding interview questions in firms like Amazon, Microsoft, Flipkart, and others, and they cover practically all of the ideas relevant to Data Structures and Algorithms. Not only does it have coding questions but also it covers all the segments round-wise like MCQs, DSA (Coding Questions), Video Solutions, CS Subjects, Puzzles, System Design, and Projects. This is the first resource you need to start your contest preparation. Along with this, you need to master coding interview scenarios. And that can be done with GFG’s Interview Series. GeeksforGeeks Interview Series (Partnered with Amazon) GeeksforGeeks presents FREE Interview Series (partnered with Amazon). It is a recurring weekly Contest Series that will help you to simulate the Coding Interview Rounds of Top IT Giants. GFG’s DSA contest ‘Interview Series’ is held every Sunday at 7 PM IST. You can watch live video editorials, view your progress on the monthly leaderboard, earn GeekBits, redeem rewards, and enjoy many other benefits. How to Register For Amazon Hiring Challenge? The registration process for this Job-A-Thon Exclusive: Hiring Challenge for Amazon Alexa is very easy and FREE as mentioned below: Go to the contest page and signup for our portal if you are not registered. Before registering for the contest, first submit your details here to be eligible for the interview process. Click on Apply button after filling in all the required details. Then click on the Register button on the Contest Page to get yourself registered for the hiring process. Instructions Only individual participation is allowed in this Job-A-Thon. Interview shortlisting will be done by specific companies based on their own criteria. Languages supported for the DSA problems are C++, Java, and Python. Each submission will be tested based on our critical test data. There is a 5% penalty for each wrong submission. For example, if a problem is 100 marks and a participant makes a wrong submission, his marks are reduced to 95. After the next wrong submission of the same problem, his marks are further reduced to 90.25 and so on. Therefore, it is suggested to use ‘Compile and Test’ against sample test cases before each submission. Please refrain from discussing strategy during the contest. All submissions are run through a plagiarism detector. Any case of code plagiarism will reduce the score of the concerned participants to 0. This may lead to modifications in the leaderboard after the contest. Make sure other participants don’t have access to your code. If you use any other online coding environment, you are responsible for the privacy of your code. Marks of MCQ-type questions are added after the contest is over. Entries submitted by candidates after the contest if closed will not be considered. GeeksforGeeks holds the right to disqualify any participant at any stage of the process if the participant(s) are deemed to be acting fraudulently or otherwise. In case of any dispute over rankings and leaderboard, the decision of GeeksforGeeks shall be final. It is advised to attempt the Sample Geeks Challenge to get familiar with the GeeksforGeeks coding environment. Job-A-Thon – Partnered with Amazon is going to be very fruitful for all the candidates from their career perspectives and can help them to get placed at Amazon (a dream company to work with) without any hassle! So, get ready for the contest and participate in this hiring challenge wholeheartedly! My Personal Notes arrow_drop_up Save Like Next Must Do Coding Questions for Companies like Amazon, Microsoft, Adobe, ... Recommended Articles Page : GeeksforGeeks Jobathon - Are You Ready For This Hiring Challenge? 17, Jan 22 Geeks Coding Challenge [GCC 2019] - A Three Day Coding Challenge By GeeksforGeeks 06, Dec 19 DSA Internship Hiring Challenge For Freshers By GeeksforGeeks 08, Jun 22 Awaken the Memer in You - GFG Hiring Challenge 08, Dec 21 Get Premium GFG Courses at Best Prices - Geek Week 2021 Exclusive! 19, Oct 21 Write From Home Challenge - Technical Content Writing Event By GeeksforGeeks 04, Apr 20 GeeksforGeeks 24 Hour Sprint Challenge - Showcase Your Excellence 06, Apr 21 Code India Code - Challenge Your Coding Skills with GeeksforGeeks 10, Feb 22 A basic Python Programming Challenge 09, Apr 16 Google Developer Student Clubs Solution Challenge 2021 01, Feb 21 100 Days of Code with GFG - Get Committed to a Challenge! 18, Sep 21 7 Best Coding Challenge Websites in 2020 29, Feb 20 GFG Summer Break Challenge 2022 - FREE Weekly DSA Coding Contest Series 13, Jun 22 Geek Streak - 24 Days POTD Challenge 26, Jun 22 How Technology is Transforming the Hiring Process? 30, Aug 21 Simplify Your Hiring Process with GFG “Get Hired” Job Portal 24, Jun 22 Amazon SDE Sheet - A Guide for Amazon SDE Interview Preparation 14, Jul 22 How to add articles to “To Do” and “Done” lists on GeeksforGeeks? 06, Apr 16 What are the benefits of interning as content writer at GeeksforGeeks? 24, Mar 17 How Content Writing at GeeksforGeeks works? 02, Aug 18 GRE 2021 General Test Series | GeeksforGeeks 11, Mar 19 Geek Week – Celebrate The Biggest Programming Festival With GeeksforGeeks 10, Oct 19 System Design - Live Course By GeeksforGeeks 04, Mar 21 Black Friday Sale - Programmers Have Carts, GeeksforGeeks Has Deals! 25, Nov 19 Article Contributed By : GeeksforGeeks Vote for difficulty Current difficulty : Medium Easy Normal Medium Hard Expert Improved By : sagarikabiswas Article Tags : GBlog Report Issue Writing code in comment? Please use ide.geeksforgeeks.org, generate link and share the link here. Load Comments What's New Practice Problems, POTD Streak, Weekly Contests & More! View Details Data Structures & Algorithms- Self Paced Course View Details Complete Interview Preparation- Self Paced Course View Details Improve your Coding Skills with PracticeTry It! A-143, 9th Floor, Sovereign Corporate Tower, Sector-136, Noida, Uttar Pradesh - 201305 feedback@geeksforgeeks.org Company About Us Careers In Media Contact Us Privacy Policy Copyright Policy Learn Algorithms Data Structures SDE Cheat Sheet Machine learning CS Subjects Video Tutorials Courses News Top News Technology Work & Career Business Finance Lifestyle Knowledge Languages Python Java CPP Golang C# SQL Kotlin Web Development Web Tutorials Django Tutorial HTML JavaScript Bootstrap ReactJS NodeJS Contribute Write an Article Improve an Article Pick Topics to Write Write Interview Experience Internships Video Internship @geeksforgeeks , Some rights reserved We use cookies to ensure you have the best browsing experience on our website. By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understood our Cookie Policy & Privacy Policy Got It ! Start Your Coding Journey Now! Login Register