https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/category/algorithm/greedy/ Greedy Archives - GeeksforGeeks Skip to content Courses For Working Professionals LIVE DSA Live Classes System Design Java Backend Development Full Stack LIVE Explore More Self-Paced DSA- Self Paced SDE Theory All Development Courses Explore More For Students LIVE Competitive Programming GATE Live Course 2023 Data Science Explore More Self-Paced DSA- Self Paced CIP JAVA / Python / C++ Explore More School Courses School Guide Python Programming Learn To Make Apps Explore more All Courses Tutorials Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Asymptotic Analysis Worst, Average and Best Cases Asymptotic Notations Little o and little omega notations Lower and Upper Bound Theory Analysis of Loops Solving Recurrences Amortized Analysis What does 'Space Complexity' mean ? Pseudo-polynomial Algorithms Polynomial Time Approximation Scheme A Time Complexity Question Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Bitwise Algorithms Randomized Algorithms Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch and Bound All Algorithms Data Structures Arrays Linked List Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings All Data Structures Interview Corner Company Preparation Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competititve Programming Design Patterns System Design Tutorial Multiple Choice Quizzes Languages C C++ Java Python C# JavaScript jQuery SQL PHP Scala Perl Go Language HTML CSS Kotlin ML & Data Science Machine Learning Data Science CS Subjects Mathematics Operating System DBMS Computer Networks Computer Organization and Architecture Theory of Computation Compiler Design Digital Logic Software Engineering GATE GATE Computer Science Notes Last Minute Notes GATE CS Solved Papers GATE CS Original Papers and Official Keys GATE 2021 Dates GATE CS 2021 Syllabus Important Topics for GATE CS Web Technologies HTML CSS JavaScript AngularJS ReactJS NodeJS Bootstrap jQuery PHP Software Designs Software Design Patterns System Design Tutorial School Learning School Programming Mathematics Number System Algebra Trigonometry Statistics Probability Geometry Mensuration Calculus Maths Notes (Class 8-12) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes Class 12 Notes NCERT Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution RD Sharma Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution Physics Notes (Class 8-11) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes Chemistry Notes Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes CS Exams/PSUs ISRO ISRO CS Original Papers and Official Keys ISRO CS Solved Papers ISRO CS Syllabus for Scientist/Engineer Exam UGC NET UGC NET CS Notes Paper II UGC NET CS Notes Paper III UGC NET CS Solved Papers Student Campus Ambassador Program School Ambassador Program Project Geek of the Month Campus Geek of the Month Placement Course Competititve Programming Testimonials Student Chapter Geek on the Top Internship Careers Jobs Apply for Jobs Post a Job Hire with Us Know about Jobathon Jobathon Practice All DSA Problems Problem of the Day Interview Series: Weekly Contests Bi-Wizard Coding: School Contests Contests and Events Practice SDE Sheet Curated DSA Lists Top 50 Array Problems Top 50 String Problems Top 50 Tree Problems Top 50 Graph Problems Top 50 DP Problems Write Come write articles for us and get featured Practice Learn and code with the best industry experts Premium Get access to ad-free content, doubt assistance and more! Jobs Come and find your dream job with us Geeks Digest Quizzes Geeks Campus Gblog Articles IDE Campus Mantri Home Saved Videos Courses GBlog Puzzles What's New ? Change Language Data Structures Algorithms Interview Preparation Topic-wise Practice C++ Java Python Competitive Programming Machine Learning HTML SDE Sheet Puzzles GFG School Projects ▲ Category Archives: Greedy Count minimum decrement prefix or suffix or increment all operations to make Array equal to 0 Given an array arr[] of size N. The task is to make all the array elements equal to zero by applying the minimum number of… Read More Arrays Greedy Maximum possible difference between two Subarrays after removing N elements from Array Given an array arr[] which is of 3*N size, the task is to remove N elements and divide the whole array into two equal parts… Read More Arrays loop Arrays Greedy Heap Check if empty spaces of Array can be filled maintaining given relations of adjacent Given two arrays, array A[] of size N and array B[] of size N-1, array A has all the positive elements and -1 for the… Read More Arrays Greedy Minimum removals to segregate all 0s and 1s such that count of 0s and 1s are equal Given a binary string S of length N, the task is to find the minimum number of removals to segregate all the 0s and all… Read More prefix-sum Greedy Strings Monotonic shortest path from source to destination in Directed Weighted Graph Given a weighted directed graph with N vertices and M edges, a source src and a destination target, the task is to find the shortest… Read More Shortest Path Graph Greedy Minimum value to be added to maximize peak count Given an array A[] of size N. The task is to find the minimum value that should be added to the array elements to maximize… Read More prefix-sum Arrays Greedy Check presence of integer between min and max of Array that divide all Array elements Given an array A[] of size N, the task is to check if there exists any integer that divide all the elements of that array… Read More divisors Arrays Greedy Minimize operations to convert Array elements to 0s Given an array nums[] of length N containing non-negative integers, the task is to convert all elements from index 0 to N-2 to zero, after… Read More Arrays Greedy Mathematical Check if Triplet exist whose sum ends with digit K Given an array arr[] of size N, determine if there exist 3 distinct indices integers, such that their sum ends in digit K. Examples: Input:… Read More Arrays Greedy Count of distinct pair sum in given Array Given an array arr[] of size N, the task is to find the total number of unique pair sums possible from the array elements. Examples:… Read More cpp-unordered_set Arrays Greedy Count of ways to select prime or non-prime number based on Array index Given an array A[] of size N. An array has to be created using the given array considering the following conditions. If the index is… Read More Prime Number Arrays Greedy Find sorted Array after raising every Array elements to power of K Given an integer array arr[] of size N that is sorted in increasing order and an integer K, Return an array with power of K… Read More two-pointer-algorithm Arrays Greedy Longest subarray of only 0’s or 1’s with atmost K flips Medium Given a binary array a[] or size N and an integer K, the task is to find the longest subarray consisting of only 1s or… Read More Picked sliding-window subarray two-pointer-algorithm Arrays Greedy Check if String can be generated by concatenating character or String itself Given a target string S consisting of lowercase alphabets, the task is to make this string by performing some operation on an empty string such… Read More substring Greedy Strings Minimum Subarray reversals to sort given Binary Array Easy Given a binary array A[] of size N, the task is to find the minimum number of subarrays that need to be reversed to sort… Read More subarray Arrays Greedy Page 1 of 12512345...102030...»Last » What's New Data Structures & Algorithms- Self Paced Course View Details Complete Interview Preparation- Self Paced Course View Details Practice Problems, POTD Streak, Weekly Contests & More! View Details Improve your Coding Skills with PracticeTry It! A-143, 9th Floor, Sovereign Corporate Tower, Sector-136, Noida, Uttar Pradesh - 201305 feedback@geeksforgeeks.org Company About Us Careers In Media Contact Us Privacy Policy Copyright Policy Learn Algorithms Data Structures SDE Cheat Sheet Machine learning CS Subjects Video Tutorials Courses News Top News Technology Work & Career Business Finance Lifestyle Knowledge Languages Python Java CPP Golang C# SQL Kotlin Web Development Web Tutorials Django Tutorial HTML JavaScript Bootstrap ReactJS NodeJS Contribute Write an Article Improve an Article Pick Topics to Write Write Interview Experience Internships Video Internship @geeksforgeeks , Some rights reserved We use cookies to ensure you have the best browsing experience on our website. By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understood our Cookie Policy & Privacy Policy Got It ! Start Your Coding Journey Now! Login Register