https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/category/data-structures/heap/ Heap Archives - GeeksforGeeks Skip to content Courses For Working Professionals LIVE DSA Live Classes System Design Java Backend Development Full Stack LIVE Explore More Self-Paced DSA- Self Paced SDE Theory All Development Courses Explore More For Students LIVE Competitive Programming GATE Live Course 2023 Data Science Explore More Self-Paced DSA- Self Paced CIP JAVA / Python / C++ Explore More School Courses School Guide Python Programming Learn To Make Apps Explore more All Courses Tutorials Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Asymptotic Analysis Worst, Average and Best Cases Asymptotic Notations Little o and little omega notations Lower and Upper Bound Theory Analysis of Loops Solving Recurrences Amortized Analysis What does 'Space Complexity' mean ? Pseudo-polynomial Algorithms Polynomial Time Approximation Scheme A Time Complexity Question Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Bitwise Algorithms Randomized Algorithms Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch and Bound All Algorithms Data Structures Arrays Linked List Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings All Data Structures Interview Corner Company Preparation Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competititve Programming Design Patterns System Design Tutorial Multiple Choice Quizzes Languages C C++ Java Python C# JavaScript jQuery SQL PHP Scala Perl Go Language HTML CSS Kotlin ML & Data Science Machine Learning Data Science CS Subjects Mathematics Operating System DBMS Computer Networks Computer Organization and Architecture Theory of Computation Compiler Design Digital Logic Software Engineering GATE GATE Computer Science Notes Last Minute Notes GATE CS Solved Papers GATE CS Original Papers and Official Keys GATE 2021 Dates GATE CS 2021 Syllabus Important Topics for GATE CS Web Technologies HTML CSS JavaScript AngularJS ReactJS NodeJS Bootstrap jQuery PHP Software Designs Software Design Patterns System Design Tutorial School Learning School Programming Mathematics Number System Algebra Trigonometry Statistics Probability Geometry Mensuration Calculus Maths Notes (Class 8-12) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes Class 12 Notes NCERT Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution RD Sharma Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution Physics Notes (Class 8-11) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes Chemistry Notes Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes CS Exams/PSUs ISRO ISRO CS Original Papers and Official Keys ISRO CS Solved Papers ISRO CS Syllabus for Scientist/Engineer Exam UGC NET UGC NET CS Notes Paper II UGC NET CS Notes Paper III UGC NET CS Solved Papers Student Campus Ambassador Program School Ambassador Program Project Geek of the Month Campus Geek of the Month Placement Course Competititve Programming Testimonials Student Chapter Geek on the Top Internship Careers Jobs Apply for Jobs Post a Job Hire with Us Know about Jobathon Jobathon Practice All DSA Problems Problem of the Day Interview Series: Weekly Contests Bi-Wizard Coding: School Contests Contests and Events Practice SDE Sheet Curated DSA Lists Top 50 Array Problems Top 50 String Problems Top 50 Tree Problems Top 50 Graph Problems Top 50 DP Problems Write Come write articles for us and get featured Practice Learn and code with the best industry experts Premium Get access to ad-free content, doubt assistance and more! Jobs Come and find your dream job with us Geeks Digest Quizzes Geeks Campus Gblog Articles IDE Campus Mantri Home Saved Videos Courses GBlog Puzzles What's New ? Change Language Data Structures Algorithms Interview Preparation Topic-wise Practice C++ Java Python Competitive Programming Machine Learning HTML SDE Sheet Puzzles GFG School Projects ▲ Category Archives: Heap Maximum possible difference between two Subarrays after removing N elements from Array Given an array arr[] which is of 3*N size, the task is to remove N elements and divide the whole array into two equal parts… Read More Arrays loop Arrays Greedy Heap Top Data Structures That Every Programmer Must Know A Data Structure organizes and stores data in a computer so that we can perform operations on the data more efficiently. There are many diverse… Read More Arrays Binary Search Tree Data Structures GBlog Graph Hash Heap Linked List Matrix Queue Stack Strings Tree Applications, Advantages and Disadvantages of Heap Heap is a special tree-based data structure where the three is always a complete binary tree. Heaps are of two types: Max heap and Min… Read More Picked Heap Benefits of Heap over Sorted Arrays Array: An array is a collection of similar data types which is stored in contiguous memory locations. Arrays are static data structures with limited size.… Read More interview-questions Picked Arrays Heap Minimize subtraction of Array elements to make X at most 0 Basic Given a number X, and an array arr[] of length N containing the N numbers. The task is to find the minimum number of operations… Read More priority-queue Arrays Heap Mathematical Determine if possible to get Array by breaking rod segments into two halves Expert Given a rod of length L and an array arr[] of length N, the task is to find if it is possible to break the… Read More priority-queue Arrays Heap Modify array to another given array by replacing array elements with the sum of the array | Set-2 Given an Array input[] consisting only of 1s initially and an array target[] of size N, the task is to check if the array input[]… Read More priority-queue Arrays Heap Pattern Searching Sort strings on the basis of their numeric part Hard Given a sentence S of size N where each word is a concatenation of a numeric part followed by a bunch of characters. The task… Read More Algo-Geek 2021 Algo Geek Greedy Heap Sorting Strings Minimize value of equation (yi + yj + |xi – xj|) using given points Given an array arr[] of size N where arr[i] is in the form [xi, yi] denoting a point (xi, yi) on a 2D plane. The… Read More Algo-Geek 2021 Algo Geek Geometric Heap Mathematical Convert given Array to 0 by reducing elements pairwise with any positive value Hard Given an array arr[] of size N, the task is to find the number of operations to convert array elements to zero by decrementing the… Read More priority-queue Arrays Heap Sum of Array maximums after K operations by reducing max element to its half Given an array arr[] of N integers and an integer K, the task is to find the sum of maximum of the array possible wherein… Read More Algo-Geek 2021 Algo Geek Arrays Heap Queue Kth largest pairwise product possible from given two Arrays Given two arrays arr[] and brr[] containing integers. The task is to find the Kth largest product of a pair (arr[i], brr[j]). Examples: Input: arr[]… Read More Algo-Geek 2021 Algo Geek Arrays Greedy Heap Mathematical Sorting Find the sum of medians of all odd length subarrays Given an array arr[] of size N, the task is to find the sum of medians of all sub-array of odd-length. Examples: Input: arr[] =… Read More median-finding subarray Arrays Heap Mathematical Sorting Why Linked List is implemented on Heap memory rather than Stack memory? Medium Pre-requisite: Linked List Data StructureStack vsHeap Memory Allocation The Linked List is a linear data structure, in which the elements are not stored at contiguous… Read More memory-management Data Structures Heap Linked List Stack C++ Program To Merge K Sorted Linked Lists Using Min Heap – Set 2 Given k linked lists each of size n and each list is sorted in non-decreasing order, merge them into a single sorted (non-decreasing order) linked… Read More Amazon VMWare C++ Programs Heap Linked List Page 1 of 1512345...10...»Last » What's New Amazon SDE Preparation Test Series View Details C++ STL - Self Paced Course View Details Data Structures & Algorithms- Self Paced Course View Details Improve your Coding Skills with PracticeTry It! A-143, 9th Floor, Sovereign Corporate Tower, Sector-136, Noida, Uttar Pradesh - 201305 feedback@geeksforgeeks.org Company About Us Careers In Media Contact Us Privacy Policy Copyright Policy Learn Algorithms Data Structures SDE Cheat Sheet Machine learning CS Subjects Video Tutorials Courses News Top News Technology Work & Career Business Finance Lifestyle Knowledge Languages Python Java CPP Golang C# SQL Kotlin Web Development Web Tutorials Django Tutorial HTML JavaScript Bootstrap ReactJS NodeJS Contribute Write an Article Improve an Article Pick Topics to Write Write Interview Experience Internships Video Internship @geeksforgeeks , Some rights reserved We use cookies to ensure you have the best browsing experience on our website. By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understood our Cookie Policy & Privacy Policy Got It ! Start Your Coding Journey Now! Login Register