https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/tag/interview-questions/ interview-questions Archives - GeeksforGeeks Skip to content Courses For Working Professionals LIVE DSA Live Classes System Design Java Backend Development Full Stack LIVE Explore More Self-Paced DSA- Self Paced SDE Theory All Development Courses Explore More For Students LIVE Competitive Programming GATE Live Course 2023 Data Science Explore More Self-Paced DSA- Self Paced CIP JAVA / Python / C++ Explore More School Courses School Guide Python Programming Learn To Make Apps Explore more All Courses Tutorials Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Asymptotic Analysis Worst, Average and Best Cases Asymptotic Notations Little o and little omega notations Lower and Upper Bound Theory Analysis of Loops Solving Recurrences Amortized Analysis What does 'Space Complexity' mean ? Pseudo-polynomial Algorithms Polynomial Time Approximation Scheme A Time Complexity Question Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Bitwise Algorithms Randomized Algorithms Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch and Bound All Algorithms Data Structures Arrays Linked List Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings All Data Structures Interview Corner Company Preparation Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competititve Programming Design Patterns System Design Tutorial Multiple Choice Quizzes Languages C C++ Java Python C# JavaScript jQuery SQL PHP Scala Perl Go Language HTML CSS Kotlin ML & Data Science Machine Learning Data Science CS Subjects Mathematics Operating System DBMS Computer Networks Computer Organization and Architecture Theory of Computation Compiler Design Digital Logic Software Engineering GATE GATE Computer Science Notes Last Minute Notes GATE CS Solved Papers GATE CS Original Papers and Official Keys GATE 2021 Dates GATE CS 2021 Syllabus Important Topics for GATE CS Web Technologies HTML CSS JavaScript AngularJS ReactJS NodeJS Bootstrap jQuery PHP Software Designs Software Design Patterns System Design Tutorial School Learning School Programming Mathematics Number System Algebra Trigonometry Statistics Probability Geometry Mensuration Calculus Maths Notes (Class 8-12) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes Class 12 Notes NCERT Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution RD Sharma Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution Physics Notes (Class 8-11) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes Chemistry Notes Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes CS Exams/PSUs ISRO ISRO CS Original Papers and Official Keys ISRO CS Solved Papers ISRO CS Syllabus for Scientist/Engineer Exam UGC NET UGC NET CS Notes Paper II UGC NET CS Notes Paper III UGC NET CS Solved Papers Student Campus Ambassador Program School Ambassador Program Project Geek of the Month Campus Geek of the Month Placement Course Competititve Programming Testimonials Student Chapter Geek on the Top Internship Careers Jobs Apply for Jobs Post a Job Hire with Us Know about Jobathon Jobathon Practice All DSA Problems Problem of the Day Interview Series: Weekly Contests Bi-Wizard Coding: School Contests Contests and Events Practice SDE Sheet Curated DSA Lists Top 50 Array Problems Top 50 String Problems Top 50 Tree Problems Top 50 Graph Problems Top 50 DP Problems Write Come write articles for us and get featured Practice Learn and code with the best industry experts Premium Get access to ad-free content, doubt assistance and more! Jobs Come and find your dream job with us Geeks Digest Quizzes Geeks Campus Gblog Articles IDE Campus Mantri Home Saved Videos Courses GBlog Puzzles What's New ? Change Language Data Structures Algorithms Interview Preparation Topic-wise Practice C++ Java Python Competitive Programming Machine Learning HTML SDE Sheet Puzzles GFG School Projects ▲ Tag Archives: interview-questions SBI PO Interview Experience Doing a job in India’s most reputed banks seems quite fascinating and a medal of pride. Those ones who belong to middle-class and lower-middle-class families… Read More INterview interview-preparation interview-questions Interview Experiences SSC/Banking IBPS PO Interview Experience 2021 It seems quite fascinating in working with India’s biggest banks. But there is a lot of hard work, patience, and an urge to not give… Read More INterview interview-preparation interview-questions Interview Experiences SSC/Banking Top 50 Penetration Testing Interview Questions and Answers Penetration testing stands for a process where the security of a computer system is tested by trying to gain access to its internal systems. In… Read More interview-questions Ethical Hacking Top 50 CCNA Interview Questions and Answers CCNA is a certification that proves your ability to understand, use, and manage Cisco networks. The CCNA certification provides you with the skills necessary for… Read More interview-questions CCNA Top 50 Ethical Hacking Interview Questions and Answers Ethical hacking is the practice of testing a system for vulnerabilities that could be exploited by malicious individuals. Ethical hackers use various methods, such as… Read More interview-questions Ethical Hacking What is meant by Sparse Array? A sparse array or sparse matrix is an array in which most of the elements are zero. Characteristics of Sparse array: The sparse array is… Read More interview-questions Picked Arrays Benefits of Heap over Sorted Arrays Array: An array is a collection of similar data types which is stored in contiguous memory locations. Arrays are static data structures with limited size.… Read More interview-questions Picked Arrays Heap Effect of ‘b’ character in front of a string literal in Python In python, the ‘b‘ character before a string is used to specify the string as a “byte string“. For example: b_str = b’Hey I am… Read More interview-questions Picked Python Strings Is String a Primitive or a Derived Type? In this article, we are going to discuss whether String is a primitive data type or a Derived data type. Definitely, String is not a… Read More interview-questions Picked Strings Doubly Linked List using Sentinel Nodes Hard In the case of the simple doubly linked list, if we have to perform the insertion or deletion operation at the starting of the doubly… Read More doubly linked list interview-questions Linked List Find all adjacent elements of given element in a 2D Array or Matrix Given a two-dimensional integer array arr[ ][ ], return all the adjacent elements of a particular integer whose position is given as (x, y). Adjacent… Read More interview-questions Picked Arrays Matrix CSS Interview Questions and Answers 1. What is CSS? Cascading Style Sheets fondly referred to as CSS, is a simply designed language intended to simplify the process of making web… Read More CSS-Questions interview-questions CSS Web Technologies Applications, Advantages and Disadvantages of Circular Doubly Linked List The circular doubly linked list is a combination of the doubly linked list and the circular linked list. It means that this linked list is… Read More circular linked list interview-questions Picked Data Structures Linked List When to use Array over a List? Array: Array is a linear data structure that is the collection of similar data types. Arrays are static data structures with fixed sizes. Arrays are… Read More interview-questions java-list Picked python-list Arrays Data Structures How exactly does indexing works in Arrays? First, let’s understand arrays, It is a collection of items stored at contiguous memory locations. The basic idea is to store multiple items of the… Read More interview-questions Picked Arrays Data Structures Page 1 of 3123» What's New DSA Live Classes for Working Professionals View Details Practice Problems, POTD Streak, Weekly Contests & More! View Details Complete Interview Preparation- Self Paced Course View Details Improve your Coding Skills with PracticeTry It! A-143, 9th Floor, Sovereign Corporate Tower, Sector-136, Noida, Uttar Pradesh - 201305 feedback@geeksforgeeks.org Company About Us Careers In Media Contact Us Privacy Policy Copyright Policy Learn Algorithms Data Structures SDE Cheat Sheet Machine learning CS Subjects Video Tutorials Courses News Top News Technology Work & Career Business Finance Lifestyle Knowledge Languages Python Java CPP Golang C# SQL Kotlin Web Development Web Tutorials Django Tutorial HTML JavaScript Bootstrap ReactJS NodeJS Contribute Write an Article Improve an Article Pick Topics to Write Write Interview Experience Internships Video Internship @geeksforgeeks , Some rights reserved We use cookies to ensure you have the best browsing experience on our website. By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understood our Cookie Policy & Privacy Policy Got It ! Start Your Coding Journey Now! Login Register