https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/tag/interview-preparation/ interview-preparation Archives - GeeksforGeeks Skip to content Courses For Working Professionals LIVE DSA Live Classes System Design Java Backend Development Full Stack LIVE Explore More Self-Paced DSA- Self Paced SDE Theory All Development Courses Explore More For Students LIVE Competitive Programming GATE Live Course 2023 Data Science Explore More Self-Paced DSA- Self Paced CIP JAVA / Python / C++ Explore More School Courses School Guide Python Programming Learn To Make Apps Explore more All Courses Tutorials Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Asymptotic Analysis Worst, Average and Best Cases Asymptotic Notations Little o and little omega notations Lower and Upper Bound Theory Analysis of Loops Solving Recurrences Amortized Analysis What does 'Space Complexity' mean ? Pseudo-polynomial Algorithms Polynomial Time Approximation Scheme A Time Complexity Question Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Bitwise Algorithms Randomized Algorithms Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch and Bound All Algorithms Data Structures Arrays Linked List Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings All Data Structures Interview Corner Company Preparation Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competititve Programming Design Patterns System Design Tutorial Multiple Choice Quizzes Languages C C++ Java Python C# JavaScript jQuery SQL PHP Scala Perl Go Language HTML CSS Kotlin ML & Data Science Machine Learning Data Science CS Subjects Mathematics Operating System DBMS Computer Networks Computer Organization and Architecture Theory of Computation Compiler Design Digital Logic Software Engineering GATE GATE Computer Science Notes Last Minute Notes GATE CS Solved Papers GATE CS Original Papers and Official Keys GATE 2021 Dates GATE CS 2021 Syllabus Important Topics for GATE CS Web Technologies HTML CSS JavaScript AngularJS ReactJS NodeJS Bootstrap jQuery PHP Software Designs Software Design Patterns System Design Tutorial School Learning School Programming Mathematics Number System Algebra Trigonometry Statistics Probability Geometry Mensuration Calculus Maths Notes (Class 8-12) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes Class 12 Notes NCERT Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution RD Sharma Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution Physics Notes (Class 8-11) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes Chemistry Notes Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes CS Exams/PSUs ISRO ISRO CS Original Papers and Official Keys ISRO CS Solved Papers ISRO CS Syllabus for Scientist/Engineer Exam UGC NET UGC NET CS Notes Paper II UGC NET CS Notes Paper III UGC NET CS Solved Papers Student Campus Ambassador Program School Ambassador Program Project Geek of the Month Campus Geek of the Month Placement Course Competititve Programming Testimonials Student Chapter Geek on the Top Internship Careers Jobs Apply for Jobs Post a Job Hire with Us Know about Jobathon Jobathon Practice All DSA Problems Problem of the Day Interview Series: Weekly Contests Bi-Wizard Coding: School Contests Contests and Events Practice SDE Sheet Curated DSA Lists Top 50 Array Problems Top 50 String Problems Top 50 Tree Problems Top 50 Graph Problems Top 50 DP Problems Write Come write articles for us and get featured Practice Learn and code with the best industry experts Premium Get access to ad-free content, doubt assistance and more! Jobs Come and find your dream job with us Geeks Digest Quizzes Geeks Campus Gblog Articles IDE Campus Mantri Home Saved Videos Courses GBlog Puzzles What's New ? Change Language Data Structures Algorithms Interview Preparation Topic-wise Practice C++ Java Python Competitive Programming Machine Learning HTML SDE Sheet Puzzles GFG School Projects ▲ Tag Archives: interview-preparation Complete Guide on Arrays Interview Preparation The dream of every programmer is to become not just a good, but also a great programmer. We all want to achieve our goals and… Read More Interview Tips interview-preparation interview-questions Arrays Data Structures GBlog SBI PO Interview Experience Doing a job in India’s most reputed banks seems quite fascinating and a medal of pride. Those ones who belong to middle-class and lower-middle-class families… Read More INterview interview-preparation interview-questions Interview Experiences SSC/Banking IBPS PO Interview Experience 2021 It seems quite fascinating in working with India’s biggest banks. But there is a lot of hard work, patience, and an urge to not give… Read More INterview interview-preparation interview-questions Interview Experiences SSC/Banking Top 20 Puzzles Commonly Asked During SDE Interviews Medium Puzzles are one of the ways to check your problem-solving skills. These are tricky questions that let you think logically. To answer any puzzles you… Read More Aptitude-Puzzles interview-preparation interview-questions Placements Puzzles DSA Sheet by Love Babbar Medium Who is Love Babbar? Love Babbar is a famous Youtuber, a graduate from NSUT Delhi who has also worked as a Software Engineer in Amazon.… Read More GFG Sheets interview-preparation interview-questions Algorithms Data Structures GBlog Atlantic pacific water flow Hard There is an N x M rectangular island that borders both the Pacific Ocean and the Atlantic Ocean. The Pacific Ocean touches the island’s left… Read More BFS DFS Google interview-preparation Arrays Matrix Minimum number of intervals to cover the target interval Hard Given an array A[] consisting of N intervals and a target interval X, the task is to find the minimum number of intervals from the… Read More Facebook interview-preparation Arrays Greedy Mathematical Count number of nodes in a complete Binary Tree Easy Given the root of a Complete Binary Tree consisting of N nodes, the task is to find the total number of nodes in the given… Read More Binary Tree Complete Binary Tree Google interview-preparation tree-traversal Recursion Tree Maximum number of teams of size K possible with each player from different country Hard Given an array arr[] consisting of N positive integers and a positive integer K such that there are N countries, each country has arr[i] players,… Read More Binary Search Google interview-preparation Arrays Mathematical Searching TCS CodeVita 9 ( Zone 1) 2020 | Constellation Expert Three characters {#, *, . } represents a constellation of stars and galaxies in space. Each galaxy is demarcated by # characters. There can be… Read More interview-preparation TCS TCS-coding-questions Matrix Smallest pair of integers with minimum difference whose Bitwise XOR is N Given a positive integer N, the task is to find the two smallest integers A and B such that the Bitwise XOR of A and… Read More Bitwise-XOR interview-preparation Reliance Bit Magic Mathematical Count all prime numbers that can be formed using digits of a given number Hard Given a string S consisting of N digits, the task is to find the number of distinct Prime Numbers that can be formed using the… Read More Amazon HashSet interview-preparation number-digits Prime Number Backtracking Combinatorial Mathematical Recursion Strings Maximize sum of averages of subsequences of lengths lying in a given range Given an array A[] consisting of N integers and two integers X and Y, the task is to find the maximum sum of the averages… Read More Google interview-preparation Arrays Greedy Mathematical Page 1 of 1912345...10...»Last » What's New Google SDE Preparation Test Series View Details Data Structures & Algorithms- Self Paced Course View Details Complete Interview Preparation- Self Paced Course View Details Improve your Coding Skills with PracticeTry It! A-143, 9th Floor, Sovereign Corporate Tower, Sector-136, Noida, Uttar Pradesh - 201305 feedback@geeksforgeeks.org Company About Us Careers In Media Contact Us Privacy Policy Copyright Policy Learn Algorithms Data Structures SDE Cheat Sheet Machine learning CS Subjects Video Tutorials Courses News Top News Technology Work & Career Business Finance Lifestyle Knowledge Languages Python Java CPP Golang C# SQL Kotlin Web Development Web Tutorials Django Tutorial HTML JavaScript Bootstrap ReactJS NodeJS Contribute Write an Article Improve an Article Pick Topics to Write Write Interview Experience Internships Video Internship @geeksforgeeks , Some rights reserved We use cookies to ensure you have the best browsing experience on our website. By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understood our Cookie Policy & Privacy Policy Got It ! Start Your Coding Journey Now! Login Register