https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/learn-with-geeksforgeeks-course-best-courses-to-land-job-in-your-dream-company/?ref=grb Learn with GeeksforGeeks Course - Best Courses To Land Job In Your Dream Company - GeeksforGeeks Skip to content Courses For Working Professionals LIVE DSA Live Classes System Design Java Backend Development Full Stack LIVE Explore More Self-Paced DSA- Self Paced SDE Theory All Development Courses Explore More For Students LIVE Competitive Programming GATE Live Course 2023 Data Science Explore More Self-Paced DSA- Self Paced CIP JAVA / Python / C++ Explore More School Courses School Guide Python Programming Learn To Make Apps Explore more All Courses Tutorials Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Asymptotic Analysis Worst, Average and Best Cases Asymptotic Notations Little o and little omega notations Lower and Upper Bound Theory Analysis of Loops Solving Recurrences Amortized Analysis What does 'Space Complexity' mean ? Pseudo-polynomial Algorithms Polynomial Time Approximation Scheme A Time Complexity Question Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Bitwise Algorithms Randomized Algorithms Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch and Bound All Algorithms Data Structures Arrays Linked List Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings All Data Structures Interview Corner Company Preparation Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competititve Programming Design Patterns System Design Tutorial Multiple Choice Quizzes Languages C C++ Java Python C# JavaScript jQuery SQL PHP Scala Perl Go Language HTML CSS Kotlin ML & Data Science Machine Learning Data Science CS Subjects Mathematics Operating System DBMS Computer Networks Computer Organization and Architecture Theory of Computation Compiler Design Digital Logic Software Engineering GATE GATE Computer Science Notes Last Minute Notes GATE CS Solved Papers GATE CS Original Papers and Official Keys GATE 2021 Dates GATE CS 2021 Syllabus Important Topics for GATE CS Web Technologies HTML CSS JavaScript AngularJS ReactJS NodeJS Bootstrap jQuery PHP Software Designs Software Design Patterns System Design Tutorial School Learning School Programming Mathematics Number System Algebra Trigonometry Statistics Probability Geometry Mensuration Calculus Maths Notes (Class 8-12) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes Class 12 Notes NCERT Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution RD Sharma Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution Physics Notes (Class 8-11) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes Chemistry Notes Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes CS Exams/PSUs ISRO ISRO CS Original Papers and Official Keys ISRO CS Solved Papers ISRO CS Syllabus for Scientist/Engineer Exam UGC NET UGC NET CS Notes Paper II UGC NET CS Notes Paper III UGC NET CS Solved Papers Student Campus Ambassador Program School Ambassador Program Project Geek of the Month Campus Geek of the Month Placement Course Competititve Programming Testimonials Student Chapter Geek on the Top Internship Careers Jobs Apply for Jobs Post a Job Hire with Us Know about Jobathon Jobathon Practice All DSA Problems Problem of the Day Interview Series: Weekly Contests Bi-Wizard Coding: School Contests Contests and Events Practice SDE Sheet Curated DSA Lists Top 50 Array Problems Top 50 String Problems Top 50 Tree Problems Top 50 Graph Problems Top 50 DP Problems Write Come write articles for us and get featured Practice Learn and code with the best industry experts Premium Get access to ad-free content, doubt assistance and more! Jobs Come and find your dream job with us Geeks Digest Quizzes Geeks Campus Gblog Articles IDE Campus Mantri Home Saved Videos Courses GBlog Puzzles What's New ? Change Language Data Structures Algorithms Interview Preparation Topic-wise Practice C++ Java Python Competitive Programming Machine Learning HTML SDE Sheet Puzzles GFG School Projects Related Articles ▲ Related Articles Learn with GeeksforGeeks Course – Best Courses To Land Job In Your Dream Company Data Structures and Algorithms Online Courses : Free and Paid Pattern Recognition | Basics and Design Principles Pattern Recognition | Introduction Pattern Recognition | Phases and Activities Resume Writing For Internship Must Do Coding Questions for Companies like Amazon, Microsoft, Adobe, … Must Do Coding Questions Company-wise Practice for cracking any coding interview How to begin with Competitive Programming? Top 10 Algorithms and Data Structures for Competitive Programming N Queen Problem | Backtracking-3 Printing all solutions in N-Queen Problem Warnsdorff’s algorithm for Knight’s tour problem The Knight’s tour problem | Backtracking-1 Rat in a Maze | Backtracking-2 Count number of ways to reach destination in a Maze Count all possible paths from top left to bottom right of a mXn matrix Print all possible paths from top left to bottom right of a mXn matrix Unique paths in a Grid with Obstacles Unique paths covering every non-obstacle block exactly once in a grid Depth First Search or DFS for a Graph Breadth First Search or BFS for a Graph Level Order Binary Tree Traversal Tree Traversals (Inorder, Preorder and Postorder) Must Do Coding Questions for Product Based Companies Top 10 Projects For Beginners To Practice HTML and CSS Skills Learn with GeeksforGeeks Course – Best Courses To Land Job In Your Dream Company Data Structures and Algorithms Online Courses : Free and Paid Pattern Recognition | Basics and Design Principles Pattern Recognition | Introduction Pattern Recognition | Phases and Activities Resume Writing For Internship Must Do Coding Questions for Companies like Amazon, Microsoft, Adobe, … Must Do Coding Questions Company-wise Practice for cracking any coding interview How to begin with Competitive Programming? Top 10 Algorithms and Data Structures for Competitive Programming N Queen Problem | Backtracking-3 Printing all solutions in N-Queen Problem Warnsdorff’s algorithm for Knight’s tour problem The Knight’s tour problem | Backtracking-1 Rat in a Maze | Backtracking-2 Count number of ways to reach destination in a Maze Count all possible paths from top left to bottom right of a mXn matrix Print all possible paths from top left to bottom right of a mXn matrix Unique paths in a Grid with Obstacles Unique paths covering every non-obstacle block exactly once in a grid Depth First Search or DFS for a Graph Breadth First Search or BFS for a Graph Level Order Binary Tree Traversal Tree Traversals (Inorder, Preorder and Postorder) Must Do Coding Questions for Product Based Companies Top 10 Projects For Beginners To Practice HTML and CSS Skills Learn with GeeksforGeeks Course – Best Courses To Land Job In Your Dream Company View Discussion Improve Article Save Article Like Article Difficulty Level : Medium Please refer GeeksforGeeks – FREE & Paid Courses for the latest list of courses. Do you want to learn more about Data Structures and Algorithms to help in your placement process? Or maybe you want to focus on your basics and learn C++, Python, or Java? Be it learning complex topics like Machine Learning and Data Science or learning HTML, GeeksforGeeks got a course for everything, and that too at an affordable price (some are free of cost too). Learn with GeeksforGeeks Course – Best Courses To Land Job In Your Dream Company. As our motto at GeeksforGeeks is “An investment in knowledge always pays the best interest”, we made sure to curate our Paid Self-Paced Online courses, LIVE courses, and Free Courses with valuable information that you can take away with great interest. You can go through our GFG Courses platform to improve your technical knowledge and also prepare for placements or competitive exams – all from the comfort of your home. No more running here and there to learn from outdated course materials. At our GFG course platform, all courses are available at an affordable rate that can help you leverage your career in the best way possible. Paid Online – Self-Paced Courses If you want in-depth knowledge along with facilities like doubt support, you can check out these Paid Online Courses provided by GeeksforGeeks. These courses are available at very nominal prices and you can also prepare for placements and interviews with them!!! Data Structure and Algorithm Data Structures and Algorithms – Self-Paced: If you want to learn about Data Structures and Algorithms from the Basic level to the Advanced level, DSA Self-Paced Course is the course for you. You will learn Data Structures and algorithmic techniques for solving various computational problems and will implement more than 200 algorithmic coding problems. This course offers you a wealth of programming challenges that you may face at your next job interview. Programming Languages C/C++ Programming – Enter the market of programming language by learning the fundamentals of C and C++. Understand the core language that is most loved by the coders around the world. C language is the basics and C++ is a general-purpose programming language and is widely used nowadays for competitive programming. It has affixed object-oriented and generic programming features. C++ runs on lots of platforms like Windows, Linux, Unix, Mac, etc. You can check out these courses to learn from qualified experts: C Programming (Basic to Advanced) – Self-Paced C++ Programming Foundation – Self-Paced C++ STL – Self-Paced Data Structures in C Programming – Self-Paced Python Programming – If you’re a novice and want to start your programming journey, you can consider Python. It is a very efficient general-purpose programming language and is used in web development, data science, and the creation of software prototypes, among other things. It provides a straightforward, easy-to-use syntax for beginners. You can strengthen your basics by diving into these courses: Python Programming Foundation – Self-Paced Data Structures Using Python Programming – Self-Paced Java Programming – Want to create your own mobile app or create applications for laptops or games? Then you need to learn Java. It is hailed as one of the easiest languages to learn and is easy to use and simple to understand. With GeeksforGeek’s Java courses, you can become an expert in Java and clear Java questions without any problem in interviews. Check out the courses here: Java Programming Foundation – Self Paced Fundamentals of Java Collection Framework – Self Paced Web Development CSS Foundation – Self-Paced: Learn to build websites that not only contain amazing content but also look good. With our CSS Foundation course, you’ll get to understand the concepts and theory behind CSS and certain CSS features. React JS (Basic to Advanced) – Self-Paced: You will learn the basics of Git, Front End Web Development, and JavaScript and then will further move on to learning one of the most popular front-end JavaScript libraries – React JS. You will also be creating an industry-ready single-page web application. Also, you will get hands-on practice in building various projects using React JS. Register for this course if you want to create your website or further your career in web development. Android Development for Beginners – Self-Paced: Want to create your own android application? We got the best course for you. This course will help you build a strong base on the fundamentals of Android Development including the architecture and basic projects. As you know, android development is a valuable skill that can help you enhance your career. Android development skills are in-demand around the world with various. So, you can start your web development career by registering for this course. JavaScript Foundation – Self-Paced: If you’re thinking about becoming a web developer without knowing the basics, then you’re definitely going on the wrong path. Knowing the basic language of web development – JavaScript is a must! At GFG, we curated this foundation course which can help you dive deep into prototypes, JavaScript engines & how it works behind the scenes as well as understand all core features and concepts you need to know in modern JavaScript development. If you want to understand advanced JavaScript, then you should definitely go for our Advanced Javascript-Self Paced course. This course will help you irrespective of whether you are a web developer, a React, Angular, Vue.js developer (frontend developer), or a Node.js backend developer as JS forms the base of these frameworks. Git & GitHub – Self-Paced: Learn all you need to work with Git, including all about repositories, commits, branches & more with our Git & GitHub course. Dive into advanced Git features like merging, rebasing, and the stash and learn how to manage merge conflicts. This course will guide everyone through the main steps of easily using these tools in your daily projects without any prior knowledge of the same. SQL Foundation – Self-Paced: Do you know most product-based companies require you to know the basics of SQL? Yes, this is one of the most sought-after SQL topics. Be comfortable putting SQL on your resume by learning from our course and becoming an expert in SQL. Advanced HTML – Self-Paced: Create web pages by learning advanced HTML that can help you become a modern and confident HTML and CSS developer. Learn how to plan, sketch, design, build, test, and optimize a professional website with GFG’s Advanced HTML course. Interview Preparation and Test Series Complete Interview Preparation – Self Paced Whether you are preparing for placement at product-based companies, startups, or service-based companies this Complete Interview Preparation course is a one-stop solution for all. This course includes theory & lecture videos for improvised learning supported by tracks & contests for practice. Ace the coding interview at the top tech companies (Google, Amazon, Facebook, Apple, Microsoft, Netflix, and many other tech companies) Must-Do Coding Questions – Self Paced Want to know what are the must-do coding questions you need to prepare to ace interviews with tech companies? GeeksforGeeks got the best course for you – Must-Do Coding Questions course. Our expert mentors have compiled all of the frequently asked coding problems of all major product-based companies and sorted them out in a manner that will help you master each concept. All the practice questions have been arranged at intermediate to advanced levels, which will help you level up and prepare for your dream product-based company. Low-Level Design for Interview Preparation – Self Paced Learn how to handle extensive design questions such as Design A Parking Lot, Design Facebook, Design Zomato and many other important case studies that are frequently asked in interview rounds of top companies with our Low-Level Design for the Interview Preparation course. This course has been designed by system design experts keeping in mind the industry-specific requirements. OS DBMS CN for SDE Interview Preparation Operating Systems, DBMS, Computer Networking, and SQL are all crucial SDE Theory ideas to understand in order to pass your SDE interviews and get hired by top tech companies. And this course is precisely what you need since it will help you conquer these topics so that you are totally prepared for your dream career at IT behemoths like Microsoft, Adobe, Amazon, Google, Meta, and many more. Interview Test Series If you’re looking for particular product-based companies test series that topic-wise practices questions on topics like Arrays, Sorting, Mathematics, and more that are asked in interview rounds, then you should consider looking into these courses: Flipkart SDE Preparation Test Series Google SDE Preparation Test Series Microsoft SDE Preparation Test Series Amazon SDE Preparation Test Series And if you want your career in service-Based companies, then look into the following course: Complete Test Series for Service-Based Companies Data Science Machine Learning Basic and Advanced – Self-Paced Learn the fundamentals of machine learning and understand the core idea of building systems that have the ability to automatically learn from data and improve the experience without actually being explicitly programmed. Data Analysis with Python – Self-Paced Want to test the field of Data Analytics but don’t know where to start? Try out GFG’s Data Analysis with Python. This course enables you to master Data Analysis using Python with hands-on projects. You will study various aspects starting from the basics of Python to working with various types of datasets like Files, CSV, JSON, Numpy Arrays, and Pandas Data Frames using Industrial tools like Jupyter Notebook, etc. Paid Online LIVE Courses Live Courses By GeeksforGeeks are online live-streamed courses that you can attend from any geographical location. These courses are like an interactive live session, where you can ask your doubts to the instructor just like an offline classroom program. So you can get live education with doubt resolution facilities in the comfort of your home. This is the best of both worlds really!!! DSA Live for Working Professionals – Live Getting time to study when you’re a working professional is a tough job, especially when the subject is not an easy nut to crack. This is where GeeksforGeeks came as a savior. We opened our doors for you to join our live classes at your convenience. A LIVE classroom program designed for SDEs looking to switch to top product-based companies. The main focus of these live classes will be to help you prepare for coding interviews with product-based companies like Microsoft, Uber, Amazon, etc. In this live course, we’ve also added Free Placement Assistance. If you’re a working professional in an SDE role and want to switch companies, this is the best course for you. Competitive Programming – Live Master competitive programming techniques and understand and implement important techniques in Competitive Programming by taking our Live Competitive Programming course. You can know how to ace top coding competitions by joining our LIVE classes where our experts can teach you tips and tricks to master coding to compete in a competition as well as enhance your problem-solving skills. Hurry up before the seats are full! Meanwhile, you can check out these 2 competitive programming courses that you can consider if your maths is a bit weak compared to your coding skills. Strengthen your foundation on Mathematics based concepts used in Competitive Coding with these GFG courses: Mathematics for Competitive Programming in C++ – Self Paced Mathematics for Competitive Programming in Java – Self Paced JAVA Backend Development – Live Learn advanced Java, Spring/Spring Boot, Hibernate, RESTful APIs, Micro-services & related technologies to build Java-based web applications with the help of our Live JAVA Backend Development course. Our Live classes are scheduled for weekends, i.e. Saturday & Sunday, so you can learn at your own pace and convenience. It’s time to acquire the Java skills needed to pursue Web Development (Spring Boot), Android Development, Automation, and more! Join the LIVE classes before the seats fill up. Full Stack Development with React & Node JS – Live Learn the basics of Git, Front End Web Development, and JavaScript and then will further move on to learning the top two libraries- React JS and Node JS with our LIVE Full Stack Development with React & Node JS course. In this course, you also get to create LIVE projects – all of this from the comfort of your home or wherever you stay. GATE CSE 2023 Live Prepare for GATE CSE 2023 through our LIVE Gate CSE 2023 course. You can prepare for the exam at your own pace – from anywhere at any time and get a clear understanding of the exam strategy and core concept of the GATE syllabus to excel and secure a good rank in the exam. Ace your GATE exam by registering for our LIVE course. System Design – Live Ace your next systems design interview by learning all the tips and tricks from our LIVE System Design course. The system design component of a technical interview is usually the most challenging part of the process. With this LIVE course, you can increase your chances of securing a job that could change your life. Register before you miss out on your chance! Data Science – Live Want to become a data scientist but don’t know where to start, especially when you’re a novice in the field? GeeksforGeeks curated this LIVE course that provides the entire toolbox you need to become a data scientist. Be able to create Machine Learning algorithms in Python, using NumPy, and learn AI – all at your own pace. Register for our Data Science LIVE course now to upstart your career in Data Science. Free Online Courses These courses are the Free Online Courses provided by GeeksforGeeks. You can access them from any device with an internet connection and learn on the go. And they are free which is always a bonus!!! Programming interests you but having a dilemma about where to learn the basics from? GeeksforGeeks curated free courses just for beginners like you. Our experts have created free programming language courses that you can learn from without paying a dime and also start increasing your interest before moving onto intermediate and advanced levels. Here are 3 basic level courses you can start your learning from: Fork Python Fork CPP Programming – Self Paced Fork Java Programming – Self Paced Check out these courses if you are looking for more free courses to learn from: Java Collections Framework – Self Paced Fork MongoDB – Self Paced Fork React – Self Paced Fork Django – Self Paced Fork Javascript -Self Paced Fork Data Science – Self Paced For any queries, please drop a mail at courses@geeksforgeeks.org or you can call at +91 – 7838223507. My Personal Notes arrow_drop_up Save Like Next Data Structures and Algorithms Online Courses : Free and Paid Recommended Articles Page : GeeksforGeeks Complete Interview Preparation Course - Get a Job in your Dream Company! 29, Jun 20 Learn Data Structures and Algorithms for your Dream Job with this online Course 09, May 19 Things every final year student should do to get a job in their dream company 29, Oct 18 Prepare For Your Dream Company With Coding Round Contests Test Series - FREE! 26, Nov 20 Learn At Your Own Convenience With GeeksforGeeks's Online Courses 21, Feb 20 Get Your Dream Job With Amazon SDE Test Series 21, Mar 20 FREE Online Courses By GeeksforGeeks - Learn New Tech Skills! 05, Jan 22 Black Friday Sale - Grab the Best Deals on GeeksforGeeks Courses 24, Nov 21 Get Ahead of Your Peers With GeeksforGeeks's Live Courses 24, Jan 20 10 Tips For Landing Your Dream Internship 22, Mar 22 How to Land a Job in Service-Based Companies? 06, Jul 22 7 Best Tips To Speed Up Your Job Search in 2022 11, Jan 22 ELitmus 2021- Score Your Job Opportunities in Best IT Companies 01, Aug 21 Difference Between a Product Based Company and Service Based Company 20, Jul 20 DSA Self Paced Course – Basic to Advanced Online Course By GeeksforGeeks 17, Aug 21 8 Technical Courses To Get a Job in IT 03, Jan 20 Learn Java Backend Development - Live Course By GeeksforGeeks 17, Mar 21 GeeksforGeeks Python Foundation Course - Learn Python in Hindi! 28, Oct 21 Top Online Courses to Learn Data Science with Certifications 01, Dec 20 Best Way To Start With Competitive Programming - GeeksforGeeks CP Live Course 13, Nov 19 Get Premium GFG Courses at Best Prices - Geek Week 2021 Exclusive! 19, Oct 21 How to say no to a company that has offered me a job? 11, Sep 18 Does Company Culture Matter in a Software Engineer Job? 23, Nov 20 Online Courses For Beginners To Grow Your Tech Skills 08, Dec 21 Article Contributed By : harkiran78 @harkiran78 Vote for difficulty Current difficulty : Medium Easy Normal Medium Hard Expert Improved By : sagarikabiswas Article Tags : Career-Advices GFG-Course placement preparation GBlog Report Issue Writing code in comment? Please use ide.geeksforgeeks.org, generate link and share the link here. Load Comments What's New Practice Problems, POTD Streak, Weekly Contests & More! View Details Data Structures & Algorithms- Self Paced Course View Details Complete Interview Preparation- Self Paced Course View Details Improve your Coding Skills with PracticeTry It! A-143, 9th Floor, Sovereign Corporate Tower, Sector-136, Noida, Uttar Pradesh - 201305 feedback@geeksforgeeks.org Company About Us Careers In Media Contact Us Privacy Policy Copyright Policy Learn Algorithms Data Structures SDE Cheat Sheet Machine learning CS Subjects Video Tutorials Courses News Top News Technology Work & Career Business Finance Lifestyle Knowledge Languages Python Java CPP Golang C# SQL Kotlin Web Development Web Tutorials Django Tutorial HTML JavaScript Bootstrap ReactJS NodeJS Contribute Write an Article Improve an Article Pick Topics to Write Write Interview Experience Internships Video Internship @geeksforgeeks , Some rights reserved We use cookies to ensure you have the best browsing experience on our website. By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understood our Cookie Policy & Privacy Policy Got It ! Start Your Coding Journey Now! Login Register