https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/category/data-structures/linked-list/ Linked List Archives - GeeksforGeeks Skip to content Courses For Working Professionals LIVE DSA Live Classes System Design Java Backend Development Full Stack LIVE Explore More Self-Paced DSA- Self Paced SDE Theory All Development Courses Explore More For Students LIVE Competitive Programming GATE Live Course 2023 Data Science Explore More Self-Paced DSA- Self Paced CIP JAVA / Python / C++ Explore More School Courses School Guide Python Programming Learn To Make Apps Explore more All Courses Tutorials Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Asymptotic Analysis Worst, Average and Best Cases Asymptotic Notations Little o and little omega notations Lower and Upper Bound Theory Analysis of Loops Solving Recurrences Amortized Analysis What does 'Space Complexity' mean ? Pseudo-polynomial Algorithms Polynomial Time Approximation Scheme A Time Complexity Question Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Bitwise Algorithms Randomized Algorithms Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch and Bound All Algorithms Data Structures Arrays Linked List Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings All Data Structures Interview Corner Company Preparation Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competititve Programming Design Patterns System Design Tutorial Multiple Choice Quizzes Languages C C++ Java Python C# JavaScript jQuery SQL PHP Scala Perl Go Language HTML CSS Kotlin ML & Data Science Machine Learning Data Science CS Subjects Mathematics Operating System DBMS Computer Networks Computer Organization and Architecture Theory of Computation Compiler Design Digital Logic Software Engineering GATE GATE Computer Science Notes Last Minute Notes GATE CS Solved Papers GATE CS Original Papers and Official Keys GATE 2021 Dates GATE CS 2021 Syllabus Important Topics for GATE CS Web Technologies HTML CSS JavaScript AngularJS ReactJS NodeJS Bootstrap jQuery PHP Software Designs Software Design Patterns System Design Tutorial School Learning School Programming Mathematics Number System Algebra Trigonometry Statistics Probability Geometry Mensuration Calculus Maths Notes (Class 8-12) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes Class 12 Notes NCERT Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution RD Sharma Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution Physics Notes (Class 8-11) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes Chemistry Notes Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes CS Exams/PSUs ISRO ISRO CS Original Papers and Official Keys ISRO CS Solved Papers ISRO CS Syllabus for Scientist/Engineer Exam UGC NET UGC NET CS Notes Paper II UGC NET CS Notes Paper III UGC NET CS Solved Papers Student Campus Ambassador Program School Ambassador Program Project Geek of the Month Campus Geek of the Month Placement Course Competititve Programming Testimonials Student Chapter Geek on the Top Internship Careers Jobs Apply for Jobs Post a Job Hire with Us Know about Jobathon Jobathon Practice All DSA Problems Problem of the Day Interview Series: Weekly Contests Bi-Wizard Coding: School Contests Contests and Events Practice SDE Sheet Curated DSA Lists Top 50 Array Problems Top 50 String Problems Top 50 Tree Problems Top 50 Graph Problems Top 50 DP Problems Write Come write articles for us and get featured Practice Learn and code with the best industry experts Premium Get access to ad-free content, doubt assistance and more! Jobs Come and find your dream job with us Geeks Digest Quizzes Geeks Campus Gblog Articles IDE Campus Mantri Home Saved Videos Courses GBlog Puzzles What's New ? Change Language Data Structures Algorithms Interview Preparation Topic-wise Practice C++ Java Python Competitive Programming Machine Learning HTML SDE Sheet Puzzles GFG School Projects ▲ Category Archives: Linked List Queue in Go Language Medium A queue is a linear structure that follows a particular order in which the operations are performed. The order is First In First Out (FIFO). … Read More Go Language Linked List Queue Top Data Structures That Every Programmer Must Know A Data Structure organizes and stores data in a computer so that we can perform operations on the data more efficiently. There are many diverse… Read More Arrays Binary Search Tree Data Structures GBlog Graph Hash Heap Linked List Matrix Queue Stack Strings Tree Convert given Binary Tree to Doubly Linked List | Set 5 (Using Morris Traversal) Given a Binary Tree (BT), convert it to a Doubly Linked List (DLL). The left and right pointers in nodes are to be used as… Read More Binary Tree doubly linked list Inorder Traversal Linked List Tree Doubly Linked List using Sentinel Nodes Hard In the case of the simple doubly linked list, if we have to perform the insertion or deletion operation at the starting of the doubly… Read More doubly linked list interview-questions Linked List Applications, Advantages and Disadvantages of Circular Doubly Linked List The circular doubly linked list is a combination of the doubly linked list and the circular linked list. It means that this linked list is… Read More circular linked list interview-questions Picked Data Structures Linked List When to use Array over Linked List and vice versa? Array: An array is a linear data structure that is a collection of homogeneous elements. Arrays are stored in contiguous memory locations. An array is… Read More interview-questions Picked Arrays Linked List Applications, Advantages and Disadvantages of Circular Linked List Hard A Linked List is a popular data structure which is used to store elements. It is a linear data structure. It contains nodes that have… Read More circular linked list Picked Data Structures Linked List What is Data Structure: Types, Classifications and Applications Easy Data structures are an integral part of computers used for the arrangement of data in memory. They are essential and responsible for organizing, processing, accessing,… Read More Arrays Data Structures GBlog Graph Linked List Queue Stack Strings Tree Applications, Advantages and Disadvantages of Doubly Linked List Doubly linked list is a type of linked list in which nodes contains information and two pointers i.e. left pointer and right pointer. The left… Read More doubly linked list Picked Linked List Applications, Advantages and Disadvantages of Linked List Easy A Linked List is a linear data structure that is used to store a collection of data with the help of nodes. A linked list… Read More Picked Linked List Implementation of stack using Doubly Linked List Stack and doubly linked lists are two important data structures with their own benefits. Stack is a data structure that follows the LIFO technique and… Read More doubly linked list Picked Linked List Stack Introduction to Multi Linked List A multi-linked list is a special type of list that contains two or more logical key sequences. Before checking details about multi-linked list, see what… Read More Linked List Heap sort for Linked List Hard Given a linked list, the task is to sort the linked list using HeapSort. Examples: Input: list = 7 -> 698147078 -> 1123629290 -> 1849873707… Read More Heap Sort Java-Comparator Linked List Sorting Count pair of nodes with greater Bitwise AND than Bitwise XOR in given Linked List Medium Given a singly linked list, the task is to Count the pairs of nodes with greater Bitwise AND than Bitwise XOR. Examples: Input: list: 1->4->2->6->3Output:… Read More Bitwise-AND Bitwise-XOR Java-HashMap Bit Magic Hash Linked List Minimize first node of Linked List by deleting first or adding one deleted node at start Given a singly linked list, and an integer K, the task is to make the first node value as minimum as possible in K operations… Read More Geeks-Premier-League-2022 Geeks Premier League Greedy Linked List Page 1 of 7012345...102030...»Last » What's New Data Structures & Algorithms- Self Paced Course View Details Complete Interview Preparation- Self Paced Course View Details Practice Problems, POTD Streak, Weekly Contests & More! View Details Improve your Coding Skills with PracticeTry It! A-143, 9th Floor, Sovereign Corporate Tower, Sector-136, Noida, Uttar Pradesh - 201305 feedback@geeksforgeeks.org Company About Us Careers In Media Contact Us Privacy Policy Copyright Policy Learn Algorithms Data Structures SDE Cheat Sheet Machine learning CS Subjects Video Tutorials Courses News Top News Technology Work & Career Business Finance Lifestyle Knowledge Languages Python Java CPP Golang C# SQL Kotlin Web Development Web Tutorials Django Tutorial HTML JavaScript Bootstrap ReactJS NodeJS Contribute Write an Article Improve an Article Pick Topics to Write Write Interview Experience Internships Video Internship @geeksforgeeks , Some rights reserved We use cookies to ensure you have the best browsing experience on our website. By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understood our Cookie Policy & Privacy Policy Got It ! Start Your Coding Journey Now! Login Register