https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/most-in-demand-skills-to-become-a-full-stack-developer/ Most In-Demand Skills to Become a Full Stack Developer - GeeksforGeeks Skip to content Courses For Working Professionals LIVE DSA Live Classes System Design Java Backend Development Full Stack LIVE Explore More Self-Paced DSA- Self Paced SDE Theory All Development Courses Explore More For Students LIVE Competitive Programming GATE Live Course 2023 Data Science Explore More Self-Paced DSA- Self Paced CIP JAVA / Python / C++ Explore More School Courses School Guide Python Programming Learn To Make Apps Explore more All Courses Tutorials Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Asymptotic Analysis Worst, Average and Best Cases Asymptotic Notations Little o and little omega notations Lower and Upper Bound Theory Analysis of Loops Solving Recurrences Amortized Analysis What does 'Space Complexity' mean ? Pseudo-polynomial Algorithms Polynomial Time Approximation Scheme A Time Complexity Question Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Bitwise Algorithms Randomized Algorithms Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch and Bound All Algorithms Data Structures Arrays Linked List Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings All Data Structures Interview Corner Company Preparation Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competititve Programming Design Patterns System Design Tutorial Multiple Choice Quizzes Languages C C++ Java Python C# JavaScript jQuery SQL PHP Scala Perl Go Language HTML CSS Kotlin ML & Data Science Machine Learning Data Science CS Subjects Mathematics Operating System DBMS Computer Networks Computer Organization and Architecture Theory of Computation Compiler Design Digital Logic Software Engineering GATE GATE Computer Science Notes Last Minute Notes GATE CS Solved Papers GATE CS Original Papers and Official Keys GATE 2021 Dates GATE CS 2021 Syllabus Important Topics for GATE CS Web Technologies HTML CSS JavaScript AngularJS ReactJS NodeJS Bootstrap jQuery PHP Software Designs Software Design Patterns System Design Tutorial School Learning School Programming Mathematics Number System Algebra Trigonometry Statistics Probability Geometry Mensuration Calculus Maths Notes (Class 8-12) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes Class 12 Notes NCERT Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution RD Sharma Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution Physics Notes (Class 8-11) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes Chemistry Notes Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes CS Exams/PSUs ISRO ISRO CS Original Papers and Official Keys ISRO CS Solved Papers ISRO CS Syllabus for Scientist/Engineer Exam UGC NET UGC NET CS Notes Paper II UGC NET CS Notes Paper III UGC NET CS Solved Papers Student Campus Ambassador Program School Ambassador Program Project Geek of the Month Campus Geek of the Month Placement Course Competititve Programming Testimonials Student Chapter Geek on the Top Internship Careers Jobs Apply for Jobs Post a Job Hire with Us Know about Jobathon Jobathon Practice All DSA Problems Problem of the Day Interview Series: Weekly Contests Bi-Wizard Coding: School Contests Contests and Events Practice SDE Sheet Curated DSA Lists Top 50 Array Problems Top 50 String Problems Top 50 Tree Problems Top 50 Graph Problems Top 50 DP Problems Write Come write articles for us and get featured Practice Learn and code with the best industry experts Premium Get access to ad-free content, doubt assistance and more! Jobs Come and find your dream job with us Geeks Digest Quizzes Geeks Campus Gblog Articles IDE Campus Mantri Home Saved Videos Courses GBlog Puzzles What's New ? Change Language HTML CSS JavaScript jQuery PHP Bootstrap NodeJS ReactJS AngularJS ExpressJS Tailwind Bulma Foundation React Desktop jQuery UI jQuery Mobile TypeScript p5.js Tensorflow.js Primer CSS Related Articles ▲ Related Articles Must Do Coding Questions for Companies like Amazon, Microsoft, Adobe, ... Practice for cracking any coding interview Must Do Coding Questions for Product Based Companies Must Do Coding Questions Company-wise Top 10 Projects For Beginners To Practice HTML and CSS Skills Types of Software Testing Top 10 Algorithms and Data Structures for Competitive Programming Fast I/O for Competitive Programming Web 1.0, Web 2.0 and Web 3.0 with their difference Frontend vs Backend DSA Sheet by Love Babbar 100 Days of Code - A Complete Guide For Beginners and Experienced Top 10 System Design Interview Questions and Answers Different Ways to Connect One Computer to Another Computer Top Linux Distros to Consider in 2021 Genetic Algorithms Data Structures and Algorithms Online Courses : Free and Paid How to begin with Competitive Programming? Top Programming Languages for Android App Development Top 10 Programming Languages That Will Rule in 2021 7 Best Coding Challenge Websites in 2020 Ethical Issues in Information Technology (IT) What is web socket and how it is different from the HTTP? Top 10 Kali Linux Tools For Hacking Top 5 IDEs for C++ That You Should Try Once What is Competitive Programming and How to Prepare for It? GeeksforGeeks School How to overcome Time Limit Exceed(TLE)? How to Prepare for Amazon Software Development Engineering Interview? Top 10 Frameworks for Web Applications Must Do Coding Questions for Companies like Amazon, Microsoft, Adobe, ... Practice for cracking any coding interview Must Do Coding Questions for Product Based Companies Must Do Coding Questions Company-wise Top 10 Projects For Beginners To Practice HTML and CSS Skills Types of Software Testing Top 10 Algorithms and Data Structures for Competitive Programming Fast I/O for Competitive Programming Web 1.0, Web 2.0 and Web 3.0 with their difference Frontend vs Backend DSA Sheet by Love Babbar 100 Days of Code - A Complete Guide For Beginners and Experienced Top 10 System Design Interview Questions and Answers Different Ways to Connect One Computer to Another Computer Top Linux Distros to Consider in 2021 Genetic Algorithms Data Structures and Algorithms Online Courses : Free and Paid How to begin with Competitive Programming? Top Programming Languages for Android App Development Top 10 Programming Languages That Will Rule in 2021 7 Best Coding Challenge Websites in 2020 Ethical Issues in Information Technology (IT) What is web socket and how it is different from the HTTP? Top 10 Kali Linux Tools For Hacking Top 5 IDEs for C++ That You Should Try Once What is Competitive Programming and How to Prepare for It? GeeksforGeeks School How to overcome Time Limit Exceed(TLE)? How to Prepare for Amazon Software Development Engineering Interview? Top 10 Frameworks for Web Applications Most In-Demand Skills to Become a Full Stack Developer View Discussion Improve Article Save Article Like Article Last Updated : 28 Jul, 2022 Full-stack developers are one of the most trending and responsible sectors in the field of software development. The reason is, that they need to sound knowledgeable in both frontend and backend development and have to be aware of all the tools, and technologies that are being used to create different applications or websites. Besides this, full-stack developers are often responsible for user interface, user experience, and design patterns for a rich customer experience. This is one of the major reasons why they’re most popular and in-demand with an average salary bracket of INR 8LPA – INR 16LPA and above as per their level of experience. The urge for full-stack developers was so high during the pandemic that demands couldn’t be fulfilled by most countries (that includes the USA) and a recent study suggested that there will be a 20% jump in full-stack developers in the next upcoming years. But wait, it might sound so fascinating, but is that really easy to get into full-stack development? The answer is no, and as a beginner, you might face certain challenges while trying to get into full-stack development. So, today we’re going to discuss all full-stack development and the skills that are required to become one. Who’s a Full Stack Developer? Let’s break the development into two parts – Frontend and Backend development. Why so? Because any application or web development has these two major units to work on any projects. Where the front-end developer works on the wireframe, interfaces, and visual parts of any project. (usually, they’re responsible for “what and how the user has to view the front screen while interacting with the app or web) and that’s why they’re known as Front end developers. Whereas, the back-end developers are responsible for building logic, and architecture on how the app or web will work (and that also includes how and where the data will be stored and how it will flow), and since they work behind the curtains to create the base that’s why they’re known as Back end developers. You may also refer to the links mentioned below if you wish to know more about the front-end and back-end developer: How to Become a Front-End Developer? Back-end Developer Roadmap Roadmap to Become a Web Developer in 2022 Now, let’s jump to our agenda and let’s discuss some of the most in-demand skills that are required to become a successful full-stack developer. Skills Required to Become a Full-Stack developer Below are some of the best and most desired skills to become a successful full-stack developer. From the Front-End’s bucket: 1. HTML & CSS Abbreviated as Hypertext Markup Language, is one of the most common terms that most people might be aware of. HTML is highly used to prepare the structure of any website that we’re using today. However, it is mandatory for a full-stack developer to know the technical skills of using Advanced HTML – Self-Paced whereas CSS Foundation – Self-Paced or Cascading Style Sheets are generally used to style said HTML documents. In short, they’re responsible for making a rich experience and interface of any website. It also describes how and where the elements of an HTML should be displayed (including color, placement, font, etc.) and to make appealing appearances of any webpage. 2. JavaScript JavaScript is a lightweight, interpreted programming language that can be used for front-end and back-end development. It brings life to the web pages thus making them interactive and dynamic. It can be embedded with HTML to create a web page. You can build modern web applications using JavaScript and also it is the most used programming language in the world, which is used as a client-side programming language by 97.0% of all websites. This course on Advanced Javascript-Self Paced provides you with all features of JavaScript and explains all the concepts of JavaScript. 3. Frameworks You might be well aware of the fact of how important is to get the modules aligned to perform a task and that’s why it becomes a necessity for you to know the best and most popular frameworks to back up the front-end part. Besides this, the “frameworks” do help in specifying the set of rules to prepare the blueprint while developing any application so that changes can be made as and when required. Some of the best frameworks are as follows: React Angular Vue.js From the Back-End’s bucket: 4. Basic Understanding of Operating Systems One of the most important factors while developing any software is to choose the platform where it will run. Like if that software (on which you’re working) runs locally, then it will require to machine, and eventually, that machine would require an operating system to broadcast its existence. That’s why having knowledge of operating systems is the first and foremost thing to do while building any software. There are a few important elements that you need to cater to while working on an operating system, the list entails the following units: Types of Operating Systems: Linux macOS Windows Things to Learn in Operating Systems: Memory Management Process & Process Management Inter-Process Communication Threads & Concurrency I/O Management & Scheduling Distribution File System Virtualization 5. Languages to Learn Besides getting a full-struck command of front-end programming languages, it is still mandatory for you to have knowledge of back-end programming languages. All you need to do is to make sure that learning the following languages that will help you with the functionality in back-end development. Languages along with their frameworks are: Java + Springboot C# + .Net Python + Django Ruby + RubyonRails PHP + Laravel 6. Proficiency in VCS (Version Control System) Being proficient in VCS (also known as SCM – Source Code Management) requires both understanding of project management and to keep the track of the entire history. It also defines how it works as most of the company’s workflows are bound within it. That’s why it’s said that having knowledge of some of the most popular version control systems will solve most of the problems and it’s also a platform for developers to interact and discuss their ideas and issues. Some of the best VCs are: GIT GitHub GitLab Apache Subversion 7. Knowledge of Database Let’s say that you’re working on any project in an organization and building an e-commerce website. Thus, this would be required for you to have a basic understanding of where and how the data will have to be stored (this is also applicable for applications). This would require you (as a full stack developer) to possess the skillset to write queries so that data can be called when required and for that having knowledge of data structure is one of the major elements if you’d to work on a database. Being a full-stack developer comes with a lot of responsibilities and thus, designing and how manipulating database queries is a must to have. For best practice, you can opt for one of the best courses on SQL Foundation – Self Paced However, if you’re wondering what kind of database you need to work on, so basically there are two major databases that exist Relational Database: SQL MySQL PostgreSQL Non-Relational Database: MongoDB Apache Cassandra NoSQL You can also refer to our guide i.e. 30 Days of SQL (Basic to Advanced) 8. Gain Insights into “API” Being a backend developer will require you to have a strong base to work on the programming interfaces so that backed services can interact when required. Besides this, there are a number of options available when choosing one, all you need is to know the desired action that you need to incorporate. Some of the best APIs for backend development are: JSON SOAP Firebase Springboot 9. HTTP and REST – for Web Communication For those who don’t know, HTTP or Hypertext Transfer Protocol is responsible for powering up everyday work when required to interact with the internet and thus it’s used for data communication over the web. Besides this, it also handles the communication by using requests and responses of both client (web browsers) and server (cloud). Whereas, REST or Representational State Transfer is basically the standard for architecture that enables systems to communicate within themselves with ease. Besides the fact that it uses HTTP for collecting data to perform operations (different). In other words, it is important for you to have a strong grip on REST to translate between the backend and front end. 10. Testing A method to execute that decides the success of any software can be simply termed backend testing. Its main objective is to test the application or database layer that ensures that the specific software is free from any deadlocks and data loss can be prevented from it. There are three categories of testing such as structural, functional, and non-functional testing. Some of the best testing tools are: Data Factory Data Generator TurboData 11. Architecture/Design Pattern By now, you must’ve understood that full-stack developers are required to have technical skills in both the backend and front-end development, this enables them to work fluently on user interfaces for a rich customer experience. For this, they are required to have fluency with design fundamentals and architecture also. This also suggests that being a genius coder is not sufficient to master this field (full stack), perhaps it requires you to have a basic understanding of architecture so that you would be able to design the pattern by joining all the dots of how the user will interact with any website or applications. 12. Use of Monitoring Tools While working on any project, especially when is app is ready to push for LIVE, there are certain times when an app gets crashed. That’s where the requirement of monitoring rises, and full-stack developers are responsible for monitoring application logs, and server status and should be capable enough to handle any uncertain crashes and to solve any complexity especially when the app is live. Besides this, there are 5 major benefits of using monitoring tools: To Monitor Infra: Monitoring servers, containers, etc Performance Monitoring: metrics, logs, log monitoring, etc. End-to-End Monitoring: To perform monitoring across the environment. Prevention From Any Crash: To prevent any crash, and creates easiness for solving complexities. Monitor Analytics: To predict and analyze issues or requirements. How Hard is it to Become One? The more easy and most wanted job it sounds, the more typical it is to get into it because you need to be fluent with both front-end and back-end development tools and techniques. If you wish to start your career in full-stack development. it is highly advisable to have consistency, passion, and patience and the best way to prepare yourself would be to enroll yourself in the Full Stack Development With React & Node.js- Live Course where you can get a thorough of web development concepts and learn how to develop industry-ready apps. My Personal Notes arrow_drop_up Save Like Previous Command Line Flags by the Node Binary Next Complete Guide on Arrays Interview Preparation Recommended Articles Page : How to Become a Full Stack Web Developer in 2019 : A Complete Guide 02, Jun 19 How to Become a Full Stack Web Developer in 2021? 12, Feb 20 Want to Become an Android Developer - Learn these 5 Tech Skills! 10, Feb 21 7 Skills to Become a Backend Developer 08, Mar 22 Skills Required to Become a Ethical Hacker 04, Jun 20 Skills Required to Become a Cloud Engineer 03, Dec 20 7 Skills Needed to Become a Machine Learning Engineer 22, Dec 20 7 Skills Needed to Become a Business Intelligence Analyst 16, Dec 20 Top 7 Skills Required to Become a Data Scientist 26, Jul 22 Difference between MEAN Stack and Full Stack Developer 04, Jan 21 Difference between Full stack developer and Software developer 24, Sep 20 5 Most Effective Tips To Become a WordPress Developer 31, Oct 21 7 Most In-Demand Technical Skills By Companies After COVID-19 20, Sep 20 JHipster (Java Hipster) - A Full Stack Web Development Platform for the Modern Developer 25, Aug 20 Difference between MEAN Stack and LAMP Stack Developer 22, Feb 21 13 Technical Skills You Should Have As A Developer 25, Jun 19 8 Must-Have Skills for Becoming an Android App Developer 29, May 20 How to Keep Your Skills Updated As a Software Developer? 16, Sep 20 Top 10 Front End Developer Skills That You Need in 2022 15, Apr 22 Software Developer - Salary, Skills and Future Career 08, Jun 22 UI & UX Developer - Education, Skills, Salary, and Career 18, Jun 22 How to Become a Google Certified Android Developer? 07, Jun 21 How to become a Freelance Developer 22, Mar 19 How to Become A Successful Java Developer? 11, Sep 19 Article Contributed By : yuvraj10 @yuvraj10 Vote for difficulty Easy Normal Medium Hard Expert Article Tags : GBlog Web Technologies Report Issue Writing code in comment? Please use ide.geeksforgeeks.org, generate link and share the link here. Load Comments What's New Practice Problems, POTD Streak, Weekly Contests & More! View Details Data Structures & Algorithms- Self Paced Course View Details Complete Interview Preparation- Self Paced Course View Details Improve your Coding Skills with PracticeTry It! A-143, 9th Floor, Sovereign Corporate Tower, Sector-136, Noida, Uttar Pradesh - 201305 feedback@geeksforgeeks.org Company About Us Careers In Media Contact Us Privacy Policy Copyright Policy Learn Algorithms Data Structures SDE Cheat Sheet Machine learning CS Subjects Video Tutorials Courses News Top News Technology Work & Career Business Finance Lifestyle Knowledge Languages Python Java CPP Golang C# SQL Kotlin Web Development Web Tutorials Django Tutorial HTML JavaScript Bootstrap ReactJS NodeJS Contribute Write an Article Improve an Article Pick Topics to Write Write Interview Experience Internships Video Internship @geeksforgeeks , Some rights reserved We use cookies to ensure you have the best browsing experience on our website. By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understood our Cookie Policy & Privacy Policy Got It ! Start Your Coding Journey Now! Login Register