https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/ncert-solutions-for-class-12-maths/?ref=ghm NCERT Solutions for Class 12 Maths - GeeksforGeeks Skip to content Courses For Working Professionals LIVE DSA Live Classes System Design Java Backend Development Full Stack LIVE Explore More Self-Paced DSA- Self Paced SDE Theory All Development Courses Explore More For Students LIVE Competitive Programming GATE Live Course 2023 Data Science Explore More Self-Paced DSA- Self Paced CIP JAVA / Python / C++ Explore More School Courses School Guide Python Programming Learn To Make Apps Explore more All Courses Tutorials Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Asymptotic Analysis Worst, Average and Best Cases Asymptotic Notations Little o and little omega notations Lower and Upper Bound Theory Analysis of Loops Solving Recurrences Amortized Analysis What does 'Space Complexity' mean ? Pseudo-polynomial Algorithms Polynomial Time Approximation Scheme A Time Complexity Question Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Bitwise Algorithms Randomized Algorithms Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch and Bound All Algorithms Data Structures Arrays Linked List Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings All Data Structures Interview Corner Company Preparation Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competititve Programming Design Patterns System Design Tutorial Multiple Choice Quizzes Languages C C++ Java Python C# JavaScript jQuery SQL PHP Scala Perl Go Language HTML CSS Kotlin ML & Data Science Machine Learning Data Science CS Subjects Mathematics Operating System DBMS Computer Networks Computer Organization and Architecture Theory of Computation Compiler Design Digital Logic Software Engineering GATE GATE Computer Science Notes Last Minute Notes GATE CS Solved Papers GATE CS Original Papers and Official Keys GATE 2021 Dates GATE CS 2021 Syllabus Important Topics for GATE CS Web Technologies HTML CSS JavaScript AngularJS ReactJS NodeJS Bootstrap jQuery PHP Software Designs Software Design Patterns System Design Tutorial School Learning School Programming Mathematics Number System Algebra Trigonometry Statistics Probability Geometry Mensuration Calculus Maths Notes (Class 8-12) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes Class 12 Notes NCERT Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution RD Sharma Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution Physics Notes (Class 8-11) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes Chemistry Notes Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes CS Exams/PSUs ISRO ISRO CS Original Papers and Official Keys ISRO CS Solved Papers ISRO CS Syllabus for Scientist/Engineer Exam UGC NET UGC NET CS Notes Paper II UGC NET CS Notes Paper III UGC NET CS Solved Papers Student Campus Ambassador Program School Ambassador Program Project Geek of the Month Campus Geek of the Month Placement Course Competititve Programming Testimonials Student Chapter Geek on the Top Internship Careers Jobs Apply for Jobs Post a Job Hire with Us Know about Jobathon Jobathon Practice All DSA Problems Problem of the Day Interview Series: Weekly Contests Bi-Wizard Coding: School Contests Contests and Events Practice SDE Sheet Curated DSA Lists Top 50 Array Problems Top 50 String Problems Top 50 Tree Problems Top 50 Graph Problems Top 50 DP Problems Write Come write articles for us and get featured Practice Learn and code with the best industry experts Premium Get access to ad-free content, doubt assistance and more! Jobs Come and find your dream job with us Geeks Digest Quizzes Geeks Campus Gblog Articles IDE Campus Mantri Home Saved Videos Courses GBlog Puzzles What's New ? Change Language Data Structures Algorithms Interview Preparation Topic-wise Practice C++ Java Python Competitive Programming Machine Learning HTML SDE Sheet Puzzles GFG School Projects Related Articles ▲ Related Articles GeeksforGeeks School Libraries in Python How to Connect Python with SQL Database? Reading Rows from a CSV File in Python Equation of a Line in 3D Domain constraints in DBMS Data Communication - Definition, Components, Types, Channels Degree of Relations in DBMS Algebra Difference between write() and writelines() function in Python SQL HAVING Clause with Examples Logic Gates - Definition, Types, Uses Statistics Shortest Distance Between Two Lines in 3D Space | Class 12 Maths Graphical Solution of Linear Programming Problems Calculus What is an IP Address? Class 12 NCERT Solutions - Mathematics Part I - Chapter 2 Inverse Trigonometric Functions - Exercise 2.1 Bayes' Theorem Linear Programming Dot and Cross Products on Vectors p-n Junction Diode- Definition, Formation, Characteristics, Applications Invertible Functions SQL USE Database Statement Sorting Algorithms in Python Torque on an Electric Dipole in Uniform Electric Field Basic Properties of Electric Charge Properties of Matrix Addition and Scalar Multiplication | Class 12 Maths Cardinality in DBMS Probability in Maths GeeksforGeeks School Libraries in Python How to Connect Python with SQL Database? Reading Rows from a CSV File in Python Equation of a Line in 3D Domain constraints in DBMS Data Communication - Definition, Components, Types, Channels Degree of Relations in DBMS Algebra Difference between write() and writelines() function in Python SQL HAVING Clause with Examples Logic Gates - Definition, Types, Uses Statistics Shortest Distance Between Two Lines in 3D Space | Class 12 Maths Graphical Solution of Linear Programming Problems Calculus What is an IP Address? Class 12 NCERT Solutions - Mathematics Part I - Chapter 2 Inverse Trigonometric Functions - Exercise 2.1 Bayes' Theorem Linear Programming Dot and Cross Products on Vectors p-n Junction Diode- Definition, Formation, Characteristics, Applications Invertible Functions SQL USE Database Statement Sorting Algorithms in Python Torque on an Electric Dipole in Uniform Electric Field Basic Properties of Electric Charge Properties of Matrix Addition and Scalar Multiplication | Class 12 Maths Cardinality in DBMS Probability in Maths NCERT Solutions for Class 12 Maths View Discussion Improve Article Save Article Like Article Difficulty Level : Basic Last Updated : 25 Jul, 2022 You’re about to fly from the nest to a new world and we can understand how exciting and nervous you appear to appear on your Class 12 exams. While going through this phase, you need to make your base strong, especially in Maths subject which sets the path for you if you want to pursue a further career in a domain where Maths is very much needed. To make your work easier, GeeksforGeeks now provides Class 12 Maths NCERT Solutions for FREE here. Class 12 Maths NCERT Solutions provides a solid conceptual base for all the topics included in CBSE Class 12 Maths Syllabus. NCERT Solutions covers all the important theorems and formulae with detailed explanations to promote a better conceptual understanding in students. Our Maths solution can help students like you build a deeper understanding of the concepts like Matrices & Determinants, Integrals, Differentials, trigonometric functions, inverse trigonometric, etc. NCERT Solutions for Class 12 Maths include all of the answers to problems found in the NCERT Class 12th textbook. These solutions can be used as a reference by students if they get stuck when answering problems or as a source to clarify topics. Math experts meticulously create these NCERT solutions for Class 12 mathematics to guarantee that any student, regardless of intellect level, may easily comprehend the solutions. Class 12 Mathematics NCERT solutions are incredibly valuable to students studying for the 12th board examinations since they provide students with an idea of the kind of problems that may occur in the exam. CBSE NCERT Solutions for Class 12 Maths assists students in developing a solid mathematical foundation that can also help them during college-level exams. Let’s check the following solutions: Chapter 1: Relations and Functions This section covers NCERT Solutions for Class 12 Maths Chapter 1 – Relation and functions and discusses the introduction of relations and functions, types of relations, types of functions, the composition of functions and invertible functions, binary operations, and miscellaneous examples. Here, are a total of five exercises covered in this Chapter. Exercise 1.1 is only based upon the topic types of relations: reflexive, symmetric, transitive, and equivalence relations while the rest of the exercises 1.2, 1.3, and 1.4 are based on one-to-one and onto functions, composite functions, the inverse of a function. However, miscellaneous exercises cover standard problems based on all the mentioned topics in this Chapter. NCERT Solutions for Class 12 Maths of Chapter 1 are here: Exercise 1.1 Set 1, Set 2 Exercise 1.2 Exercise 1.3 Exercise 1.4 Set 1, Set 2 Miscellaneous Exercise Set 1, Set 2 More resources for CBSE Class 12 Maths Chapter 1 CBSE Class 12 Maths Chapter 1 Class 12 RD Sharma Solutions Relations and Functions Chapter 1, Chapter 2, and Chapter 3 All important formulas for Class 12 Chapter 1 Chapter 2: Inverse Trigonometric Functions Inverse Trigonometric Functions of NCERT Class 12 Maths Solutions, gives an account of various topics such as the remarks based on basic concepts of inverse trigonometric functions, properties of inverse trigonometric functions, and miscellaneous examples. These concepts are explained very well through examples. Solutions to the exercises from the Chapter can be accessed here. Definition, range, domain, principal value branch, graphs of inverse trigonometric functions, Elementary properties of inverse trigonometric functions. NCERT Solutions for Class 12 Maths of Chapter 2 are here: Exercise 2.1 Exercise 2.2 Set 1, Set 2 Miscellaneous Exercise Set 1, Set 2 More resources for CBSE Class 12 Maths Chapter 2 CBSE Class 12 Maths Chapter 2 Class 12 RD Sharma Solutions Inverse Trigonometric Functions All important formulas for Class 12 Chapter 2 Chapter 3: Matrices In Chapter 3 of the Class 12 Maths NCERT, we shall see the definition of a matrix, types of matrices, equality of matrices, operations on matrices such as the addition of matrices and multiplication of a matrix by a scalar, properties of matrix addition, properties of scalar multiplication, multiplication of matrices, properties of multiplication of matrices, transpose of a matrix, symmetric and skew-symmetric matrices, elementary operation or transformation of a matrix, the inverse of a matrix by elementary operations and miscellaneous examples. Here, you can find the exercise solution links for the topics covered in this Chapter. Initial exercises like Exercise 3.1, 3.2, and 3.3 discusses the problems on Concept, notation, order, equality, types of matrices, zero and identity matrix, transpose of a matrix, Symmetric and Skew Symmetric Matrices. Operation on matrices: Addition and multiplication and multiplication with a scalar. However, further exercises, Exercise 3.4 and Miscellaneous help to understand the concept of elementary row and column operations. Invertible matrices and proof of the uniqueness of inverse. NCERT Solutions for Class 12 Maths of Chapter 3 are here: Exercise 3.1 Exercise 3.2 Set 1, Set 2 Exercise 3.3 Exercise 3.4 Set 1, Set 2 Miscellaneous Exercise More resources for CBSE Class 12 Maths Chapter 3 CBSE Class 12 Maths Chapter 3 Class 12 RD Sharma Solutions Matrices Chapter 1 and Chapter 2 All important formulas for Class 12 Chapter 3 Chapter 4: Determinants Chapter 4 of Class 12 Maths Solutions discusses the topic of Determinants. Students will get to learn about the definition and meaning of determinants, remarks based on the order of determinants, properties of determinants, finding the area of a triangle using determinants, minors and cofactors of determinants, adjoint of a matrix, the inverse of a matrix, applications of determinants, and matrices and miscellaneous examples. Below we have links provided to each exercise solution covered in this Chapter. The first exercises are based on the determinant of a square matrix (up to 3 × 3 matrices), properties of determinants, minors, co-factors, and applications of determinants in finding the area of a triangle. However, the rest of the five exercises are based on the concepts of Adjoint and inverse of a square matrix. Consistency, inconsistency, and the number of solutions of a system of linear equations by examples, solving system of linear equations in two or three variables (having unique solution) using the inverse of a matrix. NCERT Solutions for Class 12 Maths of Chapter 4 are here: Exercise 4.1 Exercise 4.2 Set 1, Set 2 Exercise 4.3 Exercise 4.4 Exercise 4.5 Exercise 4.6 Set 1, Set 2 Miscellaneous Exercise More resources for CBSE Class 12 Maths Chapter 4 CBSE Class 12 Maths Chapter 4 Class 12 RD Sharma Solutions Determinants Chapter 1 and Chapter 2 All important formulas for Class 12 Chapter 4 Chapter 5: Continuity and Differentiability Chapter 5 of Class 12 Maths Solutions starts with the definition of Continuity. Students go on to learn about continuity, algebra of continuous function, definition and meaning of differentiability, derivatives of composite functions, derivative of implicit functions, the derivative of inverse trigonometric functions, exponential and logarithmic functions, logarithmic differentiation, derivatives of functions in parametric forms, second-order derivatives, mean value theorem via miscellaneous examples. Here, students can find the exercises explaining these concepts properly with solutions. The first five exercises deal with problems based on Continuity and differentiability, the derivative of composite functions, chain rule, inverse trigonometric functions, and the derivative of implicit functions. Concept of exponential and logarithmic functions. While the rest of the exercises are typically based on the questions of Derivatives of logarithmic and exponential functions. Logarithmic differentiation is the derivative of functions expressed in parametric forms. Second-order derivatives. Rolle’s and Lagrange’s Mean Value Theorems (without proof) and their geometric interpretation. NCERT Solutions for Class 12 Maths of Chapter 5 are here: Exercise 5.1 Set 1, Set 2 Exercise 5.2 Exercise 5.3 Exercise 5.4 Exercise 5.5 Set 1, Set 2 Exercise 5.6 Exercise 5.7 Exercise 5.8 Miscellaneous Exercise More resources for CBSE Class 12 Maths Chapter 5 CBSE Class 12 Maths Chapter 5 Class 12 RD Sharma Solutions Continuity and Differentiability Chapter 1, Chapter 2, Chapter 3 and Chapter 4 All important formulas for Class 12 Chapter 5 Chapter 6: Applications of Derivatives Chapter 6 of the Class 12 Maths Solutions provides a definition of Derivatives, rate of change of quantities, increasing and decreasing functions, tangents and normals, approximations, maxima and minima, first derivative test, maximum and minimum values of a function in a closed interval, and miscellaneous examples. Here, students can find the exercises explaining these concepts properly. Applications of derivatives: rate of change of bodies, increasing/decreasing functions, tangents and normals, use of derivatives in approximation, maxima, and minima (first derivative test motivated geometrically, and the second derivative test is given as a provable tool). Simple problems (that illustrate basic principles and understanding of the subject as well as real-life situations). NCERT Solutions for Class 12 Maths of Chapter 6 are here: Exercise 6.1 Exercise 6.2 Set 1, Set 2 Exercise 6.3 Set 1, Set 2 Exercise 6.4 Exercise 6.5 Set 1, Set 2 Miscellaneous Exercise Set 1, Set 2 More resources for CBSE Class 12 Maths Chapter 6 CBSE Class 12 Maths Chapter 6 Class 12 RD Sharma Solutions Applications of Derivatives Chapter 1, Chapter 2, Chapter 3, Chapter 4, Chapter 5 and Chapter 6 All important formulas for Class 12 Chapter 6 Important Resources for CBSE Class 12th provided by GeeksforGeeks:- CBSE Class 12 Maths Notes RD Sharma Solutions Maths Class 12 CBSE Class 12 Maths Formulas CBSE Physics Class 12 Notes CBSE Class 11 Chemistry Notes Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) Question 1: Which book is best for Class 12 Boards preparation for Maths? Answer: The NCERT textbook, which is recommended by CBSE, is the best book for not only Class 12 Mathematics but any class. Practice NCERT maths book examples and exercise questions to develop the conceptual foundation needed to tackle HOTs (High Order Thinking Problems). After properly studying the NCERT textbook, students can improve their skills by reading books like RD Sharma and RS Aggarwal. Students should not underestimate the power of NCERT solutions, as the majority of questions on the boards are either straight from NCERT or are based on NCERT. Question 2: Is Maths NCERT textbook enough for Class 12 Boards? Answer: For class 12 board examinations in Maths, the NCERT textbook is sufficient. Students can readily learn ideas by answering questions from the NCERT textbook. They can use other reference books or even solve question banks and past year question papers if they want to practise more, as Math is all about practise. Question 3: Is Class 12 Maths difficult? Answer: The opinion of a subject’s difficulty or easiness is entirely subjective. Math phobia has been imprinted in the minds of some students since childhood. But we’d like to clarify something. Class 12 NCERT Maths is not challenging. Once you have a solid grasp on the concepts, you can go on to solving solved examples and problems, which will be followed with exercise questions. The only way to master mathematics is to practise a wide range of questions. My Personal Notes arrow_drop_up Save Like Previous NCERT Solutions for Class 11 Maths Next CBSE Class 8 Maths Notes Recommended Articles Page : NCERT Solutions for Class 8 Maths 19, Apr 21 NCERT Solutions for Class 9 Maths 19, Apr 21 NCERT Solutions for Class 10 Maths 19, Apr 21 NCERT Solutions for Class 11 Maths 19, Apr 21 Class 12 NCERT Solutions- Mathematics Part I - Chapter 3 Matrices - Exercise 3.2 | Set 1 25, Feb 21 Class 8 NCERT Solutions- Chapter 8 Comparing Quantities - Exercise 8.3 25, Dec 20 Class 9 NCERT Solutions- Chapter 1 Number System - Exercise 1.5 17, Dec 20 Class 9 NCERT Solutions- Chapter 11 Constructions - Exercise 11.1 24, Dec 20 Class 9 NCERT Solutions- Chapter 7 Triangles - Exercise 7.1 25, Dec 20 Class 9 NCERT Solutions- Chapter 7 Triangles - Exercise 7.2 06, Jan 21 Class 8 NCERT Solutions - Chapter 2 Linear Equations in One Variable - Exercise 2.6 06, Nov 20 Class 10 NCERT Solutions- Chapter 3 Pair of Linear Equations in Two Variables - Exercise 3.2 26, Feb 21 Class 12 NCERT Solutions- Mathematics Part I - Chapter 5 Continuity And Differentiability - Miscellaneous Exercise on Chapter 5 17, Apr 21 Class 11 NCERT Solutions - Chapter 5 Complex Numbers And Quadratic Equations - Miscellaneous Exercise on Chapter 5 | Set 2 22, Mar 21 Class 10 NCERT Solutions- Chapter 12 Areas Related to Circles - Exercise 12.3 | Set 2 21, Jan 21 Class 8 NCERT Solutions - Chapter 8 Comparing Quantities - Exercise 8.2 17, Nov 20 Class 10 NCERT Solutions - Chapter 3 Pair of Linear Equations in Two Variables - Exercise 3.3 01, Dec 20 Class 9 NCERT Solutions- Chapter 5 Introduction to Euclid's Geometry - Exercise 5.2 25, Dec 20 Class 12 NCERT Solutions- Mathematics Part II - Chapter 9 Differential Equations-Exercise -9.2 06, Mar 21 Class 8 NCERT Solutions - Chapter 6 Squares and Square Roots - Exercise 6.1 26, Oct 20 Class 10 NCERT Solutions- Chapter 2 Polynomials - Exercise 2.1 24, Dec 20 Class 10 NCERT Solutions - Chapter 12 Areas Related to Circles - Exercise 12.1 29, Nov 20 Class 11 NCERT Solutions - Chapter 1 Sets - Exercise 1.3 09, Dec 20 Class 12 NCERT Solutions- Mathematics Part I - Chapter 4 Determinants - Exercise 4.2 | Set 1 18, Jan 21 Article Contributed By : mayurigrover @mayurigrover Vote for difficulty Current difficulty : Basic Easy Normal Medium Hard Expert Improved By : anjalishukla1859 mayurigrover Article Tags : NCERT Solutions Class-12 Class 12 NCERT School Learning School Mathematics Report Issue Writing code in comment? Please use ide.geeksforgeeks.org, generate link and share the link here. Load Comments What's New School Guide: Roadmap For School Students View Details Practice Problems, POTD Streak, Weekly Contests & More! View Details Complete Interview Preparation- Self Paced Course View Details Improve your Coding Skills with PracticeTry It! A-143, 9th Floor, Sovereign Corporate Tower, Sector-136, Noida, Uttar Pradesh - 201305 feedback@geeksforgeeks.org Company About Us Careers In Media Contact Us Privacy Policy Copyright Policy Learn Algorithms Data Structures SDE Cheat Sheet Machine learning CS Subjects Video Tutorials Courses News Top News Technology Work & Career Business Finance Lifestyle Knowledge Languages Python Java CPP Golang C# SQL Kotlin Web Development Web Tutorials Django Tutorial HTML JavaScript Bootstrap ReactJS NodeJS Contribute Write an Article Improve an Article Pick Topics to Write Write Interview Experience Internships Video Internship @geeksforgeeks , Some rights reserved We use cookies to ensure you have the best browsing experience on our website. By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understood our Cookie Policy & Privacy Policy Got It ! Start Your Coding Journey Now! Login Register