https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/category/computer-subject/operating-systems/ Operating Systems Archives - GeeksforGeeks Skip to content Courses For Working Professionals LIVE DSA Live Classes System Design Java Backend Development Full Stack LIVE Explore More Self-Paced DSA- Self Paced SDE Theory All Development Courses Explore More For Students LIVE Competitive Programming GATE Live Course 2023 Data Science Explore More Self-Paced DSA- Self Paced CIP JAVA / Python / C++ Explore More School Courses School Guide Python Programming Learn To Make Apps Explore more All Courses Tutorials Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Asymptotic Analysis Worst, Average and Best Cases Asymptotic Notations Little o and little omega notations Lower and Upper Bound Theory Analysis of Loops Solving Recurrences Amortized Analysis What does 'Space Complexity' mean ? Pseudo-polynomial Algorithms Polynomial Time Approximation Scheme A Time Complexity Question Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Bitwise Algorithms Randomized Algorithms Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch and Bound All Algorithms Data Structures Arrays Linked List Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings All Data Structures Interview Corner Company Preparation Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competititve Programming Design Patterns System Design Tutorial Multiple Choice Quizzes Languages C C++ Java Python C# JavaScript jQuery SQL PHP Scala Perl Go Language HTML CSS Kotlin ML & Data Science Machine Learning Data Science CS Subjects Mathematics Operating System DBMS Computer Networks Computer Organization and Architecture Theory of Computation Compiler Design Digital Logic Software Engineering GATE GATE Computer Science Notes Last Minute Notes GATE CS Solved Papers GATE CS Original Papers and Official Keys GATE 2021 Dates GATE CS 2021 Syllabus Important Topics for GATE CS Web Technologies HTML CSS JavaScript AngularJS ReactJS NodeJS Bootstrap jQuery PHP Software Designs Software Design Patterns System Design Tutorial School Learning School Programming Mathematics Number System Algebra Trigonometry Statistics Probability Geometry Mensuration Calculus Maths Notes (Class 8-12) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes Class 12 Notes NCERT Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution RD Sharma Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution Physics Notes (Class 8-11) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes Chemistry Notes Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes CS Exams/PSUs ISRO ISRO CS Original Papers and Official Keys ISRO CS Solved Papers ISRO CS Syllabus for Scientist/Engineer Exam UGC NET UGC NET CS Notes Paper II UGC NET CS Notes Paper III UGC NET CS Solved Papers Student Campus Ambassador Program School Ambassador Program Project Geek of the Month Campus Geek of the Month Placement Course Competititve Programming Testimonials Student Chapter Geek on the Top Internship Careers Jobs Apply for Jobs Post a Job Hire with Us Know about Jobathon Jobathon Practice All DSA Problems Problem of the Day Interview Series: Weekly Contests Bi-Wizard Coding: School Contests Contests and Events Practice SDE Sheet Curated DSA Lists Top 50 Array Problems Top 50 String Problems Top 50 Tree Problems Top 50 Graph Problems Top 50 DP Problems Write Come write articles for us and get featured Practice Learn and code with the best industry experts Premium Get access to ad-free content, doubt assistance and more! Jobs Come and find your dream job with us Geeks Digest Quizzes Geeks Campus Gblog Articles IDE Campus Mantri Home Saved Videos Courses GBlog Puzzles What's New ? Change Language Data Structures Algorithms Interview Preparation Topic-wise Practice C++ Java Python Competitive Programming Machine Learning HTML SDE Sheet Puzzles GFG School Projects ▲ Category Archives: Operating Systems What is the Stack Size Estimation What is stack size estimation? Stack size estimation is the process of forecasting the size of the stack that an operating system might use for… Read More memory-management Picked Operating Systems Stack Difference Between Recovery ROM and Fastboot ROM ROM stands for read-only memory. It is the type of storage that is built into a device during manufacturing. There is various type of ROM… Read More Picked Computer Subject Difference Between Operating Systems Segment Descriptor Segment Descriptor: In the Protected mode of x86, Memory Management Unit (MMU) uses the segment selector to access a descriptor, segment descriptors are a part… Read More Advanced Computer Subject Computer Organization and Architecture Operating Systems How can the stack memory be increased? Medium A Stack is a temporary memory address space that is used to hold arguments and automatic variables during the invocation of a subprogram or function… Read More memory-management Picked Operating Systems Stack What is the Variable stack size ? Expert What variable stack size is and how does it affect computer networks? A variable stack depth (VSD) means that the maximum number of frames the… Read More memory-management Picked Operating Systems Stack Johnson’s Rule in Sequencing Problems Hard The sequencing problem deals with determining an optimum sequence of performing a number of jobs by a finite number of service facilities (machine) according to… Read More Computer Subject Operating Systems Difference between LXC and LXD LXC stands for Linux Containers, it is a tool that is used for the virtualization of operating systems. By using LXC one can operate any… Read More Difference Between Operating Systems Web Technologies Difference Between User-CPU-Time and System-CPU-Time in UNIX Unix systems have a time utility that allows a user to see where their application took significant time to process. The syntax of this utility… Read More Picked Computer Subject Difference Between GATE CS Linux-Unix Operating Systems Preemptive Priority CPU Scheduling Algorithm Preemptive Priority CPU Scheduling Algorithm is a pre-emptive method of CPU scheduling algorithm that works based on the priority of a process. In this algorithm,… Read More cpu-scheduling Picked Operating Systems How to mount a partition of 5 GB in Windows Server? Easy Mount point is a directory in a file system where additional information is logically connected from a storage location outside the operating system’s root drive… Read More How To Operating Systems How to Add a Virtual Disk to the Existing Storage in Windows Server? A virtual disk is a file on the host system and appears to be a physical disk drive to the guest operating system. So, if… Read More How To Operating Systems Inode vs Vnode Inode doesn’t contain files actual data but it contains the metadata about the file such as the file size, User Id, Protection information etc. It… Read More Picked Difference Between Operating Systems Difference Between Host and Guest Operating System In this post, we will see the Host Operating System versus Guest Operating System. But, before we get into the differences, it’s important to understand… Read More Operating Systems-Process Management Computer Subject Difference Between GATE CS Operating Systems Design a concurrent server for handling multiple clients using fork() Prerequisite: Socket Programming in C/C++, fork() System call Problem Statement: In this article, we are going to write a program that illustrates the Client-Server Model… Read More C Programs Computer Networks Operating Systems Performance Metrics For Mutual Exclusion Algorithm Medium Mutual exclusion is a program object that refers to the requirement of satisfying that no two concurrent processes are in a critical section at the… Read More Distributed System Picked Computer Subject Operating Systems Page 1 of 6212345...102030...»Last » What's New Master CS Subjects For SDE Preparation View Details Data Structures & Algorithms- Self Paced Course View Details Complete Interview Preparation- Self Paced Course View Details Improve your Coding Skills with PracticeTry It! A-143, 9th Floor, Sovereign Corporate Tower, Sector-136, Noida, Uttar Pradesh - 201305 feedback@geeksforgeeks.org Company About Us Careers In Media Contact Us Privacy Policy Copyright Policy Learn Algorithms Data Structures SDE Cheat Sheet Machine learning CS Subjects Video Tutorials Courses News Top News Technology Work & Career Business Finance Lifestyle Knowledge Languages Python Java CPP Golang C# SQL Kotlin Web Development Web Tutorials Django Tutorial HTML JavaScript Bootstrap ReactJS NodeJS Contribute Write an Article Improve an Article Pick Topics to Write Write Interview Experience Internships Video Internship @geeksforgeeks , Some rights reserved We use cookies to ensure you have the best browsing experience on our website. By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understood our Cookie Policy & Privacy Policy Got It ! Start Your Coding Journey Now! Login Register