https://www.guru99.com/pentaho-tutorial.html Pentaho Data Integration Tutorial: What is, Pentaho ETL Tool Skip to content Home Testing Expand Agile Testing JUnit Quality Center(ALM) Bugzilla HP Loadrunner RPA Cucumber Software Testing SAP Testing Database Testing Mobile Testing Selenium ETL Testing Mantis SoapUI JMeter Postman TEST Management JIRA QTP TestLink SAP Expand ABAP CRM PI/PO APO Crystal Reports PP Beginners FICO SD Basis HANA SAPUI5 BODS HR Security Tutorial BI/BW MM Solution Manager BPC QM Successfactors CO Payroll SAP Tutorial Web Expand Apache Java PHP SQL Server AngularJS JSP PL/SQL UML ASP.NET Kotlin PostgreSQL VB.NET C Linux Python VBScript C# MariaDB ReactJS Web Services C++ MS Access Ruby & Rails WPF CodeIgniter MySQL Scala SQLite DBMS Node.js SQL Perl JavaScript Must Learn Expand Accounting Embedded Systems Operating System Algorithms Ethical Hacking PMP Android Excel Tutorial Photoshop Blockchain Go Programming Project Management Business Analyst IoT Reviews Build Website ITIL Salesforce Cloud Computing Jenkins SEO COBOL MIS Software Engineering Compiler Design Movie VBA Courses Networking VPN Big Data Expand AWS Hive Power BI Big Data Informatica Qlikview Cassandra MicroStrategy Tableau Cognos MongoDB Talend Data Warehousing NiFi ZooKeeper DevOps OBIEE Pentaho HBase Live Project Expand Live Agile Testing Live Selenium Project Live HP ALM Live Selenium 2 Live Java Project Live Security Testing Live Mobile Testing Live Testing Project Live Payment Gateway Live Testing 2 Live PHP Project Live Telecom Live Projects Hub Live UFT/QTP Testing Live Python Project Live SEO Project AI Expand Artificial Intelligence PyTorch Data Science R Programming Keras TensorFlow NLTK Blog Search Toggle Menu Pentaho Data Integration Tutorial: What is, Pentaho ETL Tool ByDavid Taylor Hours UpdatedJune 18, 2022 What is Pentaho BI? Pentaho is a Business Intelligence tool which provides a wide range of business intelligence solutions to the customers. It is capable of reporting, data analysis, data integration, data mining, etc. Pentaho also offers a comprehensive set of BI features which allows you to improve business performance and efficiency. In this Pentaho tutorial for beginners, you will learn: Features of Pentaho Pentaho BI suite Who are using Pentaho BI? How to Install Pentaho in AWS Prerequisite of Pentaho Pentaho Administration Console Pentaho Tool vs. BI stack Advantages of Pentaho Disadvantages of Pentaho Features of Pentaho Following, are important features of Pentaho: ETL capabilities for business intelligence needs Understanding Pentaho Report Designer Product Expertise Offers Side-by-side subreports Unlocking new capabilities Professional Support Query and Reporting Offers Enhanced Functionality Full runtime metadata support from data sources Pentaho BI suite Now, we will learn about Pentaho BI suite in this Pentaho tutorial: Pentaho BI Suite Pentaho BI Suite includes the following components: Pentaho Reporting Pentaho Reporting depends on the JFreeReport project. It helps you to fulfill your business reporting needs. This component also offers both scheduled and on-demand report publishing in popular formats such as XLS, PDF, TXT, and HTML. Analysis It offers a wide range of analysis a wide range of features that includes a pivot table view. The tool provides enhanced GUI features (using Flash or SVG), integrated dashboard widgets, portal, and workflow integration. Moreover, Pentaho Spreadsheet Services allows a user to browse, pivot, and use chart from within MS Excel. Dashboards The dashboard offers Reporting and Analysis, which contribute content to Pentaho Dashboards. The self-service dashboard designer includes extensive built-in dashboard templates and layout. It allows business users to build personalized dashboards with little training. Data Mining Data mining tool discovers hidden patterns and indicators of future performance. It offers the most comprehensive set of machine learning algorithms from the Weka project, which includes clustering, decision trees, random forests, principal component analysis, neural networks. It allows you to view data graphically, interact with it programmatically, or use multiple data sources for reports, further analysis, and other processes. Pentaho Data Integration This component is used to integrate data wherever it exists. Rich transformation library with over 150 out-of-the-box mapping objects. It supports a wide range of data source which includes more than 30 open source and proprietary database platforms, flat files. It also helps Big Data analytics with integration and management of Hadoop data. Who are using Pentaho BI? Pentaho BI is a widely used tool by may software professionals like: Open source software programs Business analyst and researcher College students Business intelligence councilor How to Install Pentaho in AWS Following is a step by step process on How to Install Pentaho in AWS. Step 1) Click Continue to Subscribe Go to https://aws.amazon.com/marketplace/pp/prodview-mce2xdbgie4ro and click Continue Step 2) Accept Terms & Conditions On next page, Accept License Agreement Step 3) Click Continue to Configuration Proceed for Configuration Step 4) Click Continue to Launch Keep the settings default, and Click to Launch Step 5) Wait for 5 minutes for instance to launch Check the usage instructions and wait Step 6) Get Public IP Copy Public IP of the instance. Step 7) Use the public IP for Login Paste public IP of the instance to access Pentaho. Prerequisite of Pentaho Hardware requirements Software requirements Downloading and installing Bl suite Starting the Bl suite Administration of the Bl suite Hardware requirement: The Pentaho Bl Suite software does not have any fix limits on a computer or network hardware as long as you can meet the minimum software requirements. It is easy to install this Business intelligence tool. However, a recommended set of system specifications: RAM Minimum 2GB Hard drive space Minimum 1GB Processor Dual-core EM64T or AMD64 Software requirements Installation of Sun JRE 5.0 The environment can be either 32-bit or 64-bit Supported Operating systems: Linux, Solaris, Windows, Mac A workstation that has a modern web browser interface such as Chrome, Internet Explorer, Firefox To start Bl-server On Windows from the start, button click on start Bl server icon. On Linux OS run start-pentaho script on /biserver-ce/directory To start the administrator server: On Windows from start button click on start Bl enterprise server. For Linux: goto the command window and run the start-up script in /biserver-ce/administration-console/directory. To Stop administrator server: To stop the server in windows, click on stop bi-server icons. On Linux. You need to go to the terminal and goto installed directory and run stop.bat Pentaho Administration Console Report Designer: It is an advanced report creation tool. This is an ideal tool for you if you want to build a complete data-drive report. This tool offers plenty of flexibility and functionality than the ad hoc reporting capabilities of the Pentaho User Console. Design Studio: It is an Eclipse-based tool. It allows you to hand-edit a report or analysis. It is widely used to add modifications to an existing report that cannot be added with Report Designer. Aggregation Designer: This graphical tool allows you to improve Mondrian cube efficiency. Metadata Editor: It is used to add custom metadata layer to any existing data source. Pentaho Data Integration: The Kettle extract, transform, and load (ETL) tool, which enables Pentaho Tool vs. BI stack Pentaho Tool BI Stack Data Integration (PDI) ETL It offers metadata Editor It provides metadata management Pentaho BA Analytics Reports Designer Operational Reporting Saiku Ad-hoc Reporting CDE Dashboards Pentaho User Console (PUC) Governance/Monitoring Advantages of Pentaho Now in this Pentaho data integration tutorial, we will learn about some advantages of Pentaho Business Intelligence Tool: Pentaho BI is a very intuitive tool. With some basic concepts, you can work with it. Simple and easy to use Business Intelligence tool Offers a wide range of BI capabilities which includes reporting, dashboard, interactive analysis, data integration, data mining, etc. Comes with a user-friendly interface and provides various tools to Retrieve data from multiple data sources Offers single package to work on Data Has a community edition with a lot of contributors along with Enterprise edition. The capability of running on the Hadoop cluster JavaScript code written in the step components can be reused in other components. Disadvantages of Pentaho Here, are cons/drawbacks of using Pentaho BI tool: The design of the interface can be weak, and there is no unified interface for all components. Much slower tool evolution compared to other BI tools. Pentaho Business analytics offers a limited number of components. Poor community support. So, if you don’t get a working component, you need to wait till the next version is released. Summary: Pentaho is a Business Intelligence tool which provides a wide range of business intelligence solutions to the customers It offers ETL capabilities for business intelligence needs. Pentaho suites offer components like Report, Analysis, Dashboard, and Data Mining Pentaho Business Intelligence is widely used by 1) Business analyst 2) Open source software programmers 3) Researcher and 4) College Students. The installation process of Pentaho includes: 1)Hardware requirements 2) Software requirements, 3) Downloading Bl suite, 4) Starting the Bl suite, and 5) Administration of the Bl suite Important components of Pentaho Administration console are 1) Report Designer, 2) Design Studio, 3) Aggregation Designer 4) Metadata Editor 5) Pentaho Data Integration Pentaho is a Data Integration (PDI) tool while BI stack is an ETL Tool. The biggest advantage of Pentaho is that it is simple and easy to use Business Intelligence tool. The main drawback of Pentaho is that it is a much slower tool evolution compared to other BI tools You Might Like: WPF Tutorial for Beginners: How to Create Application [Example] Ruby on Rails Tutorial for Beginners with Project & Example SAP BODS Tutorial for Beginners: What is, Architecture ZooKeeper Tutorial: What is, Architecture of Apache ZooKeeper Postman Tutorial: How to Install and use Postman for API Testing Post navigation Report a Bug Next Continue Top Tutorials About About Us Advertise with Us Write For Us Contact Us Python Testing Hacking Career Suggestion SAP Career Suggestion Tool Software Testing as a Career Interesting eBook Blog Quiz SAP eBook SAP Java SQL Execute online Execute Java Online Execute Javascript Execute HTML Execute Python Selenium Cryptocurrency VPNs © Copyright - Guru99 2022 Privacy Policy | Affiliate Disclaimer | ToS Scroll to top Home TestingExpand child menu Expand Agile Testing JUnit Quality Center(ALM) Bugzilla HP Loadrunner RPA Cucumber Software Testing SAP Testing Database Testing Mobile Testing Selenium ETL Testing Mantis SoapUI JMeter Postman TEST Management JIRA QTP TestLink SAPExpand child menu Expand ABAP CRM PI/PO APO Crystal Reports PP Beginners FICO SD Basis HANA SAPUI5 BODS HR Security Tutorial BI/BW MM Solution Manager BPC QM Successfactors CO Payroll SAP Tutorial WebExpand child menu Expand Apache Java PHP SQL Server AngularJS JSP PL/SQL UML ASP.NET Kotlin PostgreSQL VB.NET C Linux Python VBScript C# MariaDB ReactJS Web Services C++ MS Access Ruby & Rails WPF CodeIgniter MySQL Scala SQLite DBMS Node.js SQL Perl JavaScript Must LearnExpand child menu Expand Accounting Embedded Systems Operating System Algorithms Ethical Hacking PMP Android Excel Tutorial Photoshop Blockchain Go Programming Project Management Business Analyst IoT Reviews Build Website ITIL Salesforce Cloud Computing Jenkins SEO COBOL MIS Software Engineering Compiler Design Movie VBA Courses Networking VPN Big DataExpand child menu Expand AWS Hive Power BI Big Data Informatica Qlikview Cassandra MicroStrategy Tableau Cognos MongoDB Talend Data Warehousing NiFi ZooKeeper DevOps OBIEE Pentaho HBase Live ProjectExpand child menu Expand Live Agile Testing Live Selenium Project Live HP ALM Live Selenium 2 Live Java Project Live Security Testing Live Mobile Testing Live Testing Project Live Payment Gateway Live Testing 2 Live PHP Project Live Telecom Live Projects Hub Live UFT/QTP Testing Live Python Project Live SEO Project AIExpand child menu Expand Artificial Intelligence PyTorch Data Science R Programming Keras TensorFlow NLTK Blog Toggle Menu Close Search for: Searchhttps://www.guru99.com/pentaho-tutorial.html Pentaho Data Integration Tutorial: What is, Pentaho ETL Tool Skip to content Home Testing Expand Agile Testing JUnit Quality Center(ALM) Bugzilla HP Loadrunner RPA Cucumber Software Testing SAP Testing Database Testing Mobile Testing Selenium ETL Testing Mantis SoapUI JMeter Postman TEST Management JIRA QTP TestLink SAP Expand ABAP CRM PI/PO APO Crystal Reports PP Beginners FICO SD Basis HANA SAPUI5 BODS HR Security Tutorial BI/BW MM Solution Manager BPC QM Successfactors CO Payroll SAP Tutorial Web Expand Apache Java PHP SQL Server AngularJS JSP PL/SQL UML ASP.NET Kotlin PostgreSQL VB.NET C Linux Python VBScript C# MariaDB ReactJS Web Services C++ MS Access Ruby & Rails WPF CodeIgniter MySQL Scala SQLite DBMS Node.js SQL Perl JavaScript Must Learn Expand Accounting Embedded Systems Operating System Algorithms Ethical Hacking PMP Android Excel Tutorial Photoshop Blockchain Go Programming Project Management Business Analyst IoT Reviews Build Website ITIL Salesforce Cloud Computing Jenkins SEO COBOL MIS Software Engineering Compiler Design Movie VBA Courses Networking VPN Big Data Expand AWS Hive Power BI Big Data Informatica Qlikview Cassandra MicroStrategy Tableau Cognos MongoDB Talend Data Warehousing NiFi ZooKeeper DevOps OBIEE Pentaho HBase Live Project Expand Live Agile Testing Live Selenium Project Live HP ALM Live Selenium 2 Live Java Project Live Security Testing Live Mobile Testing Live Testing Project Live Payment Gateway Live Testing 2 Live PHP Project Live Telecom Live Projects Hub Live UFT/QTP Testing Live Python Project Live SEO Project AI Expand Artificial Intelligence PyTorch Data Science R Programming Keras TensorFlow NLTK Blog Search Toggle Menu Pentaho Data Integration Tutorial: What is, Pentaho ETL Tool ByDavid Taylor Hours UpdatedJune 18, 2022 What is Pentaho BI? Pentaho is a Business Intelligence tool which provides a wide range of business intelligence solutions to the customers. It is capable of reporting, data analysis, data integration, data mining, etc. Pentaho also offers a comprehensive set of BI features which allows you to improve business performance and efficiency. In this Pentaho tutorial for beginners, you will learn: Features of Pentaho Pentaho BI suite Who are using Pentaho BI? How to Install Pentaho in AWS Prerequisite of Pentaho Pentaho Administration Console Pentaho Tool vs. BI stack Advantages of Pentaho Disadvantages of Pentaho Features of Pentaho Following, are important features of Pentaho: ETL capabilities for business intelligence needs Understanding Pentaho Report Designer Product Expertise Offers Side-by-side subreports Unlocking new capabilities Professional Support Query and Reporting Offers Enhanced Functionality Full runtime metadata support from data sources Pentaho BI suite Now, we will learn about Pentaho BI suite in this Pentaho tutorial: Pentaho BI Suite Pentaho BI Suite includes the following components: Pentaho Reporting Pentaho Reporting depends on the JFreeReport project. It helps you to fulfill your business reporting needs. This component also offers both scheduled and on-demand report publishing in popular formats such as XLS, PDF, TXT, and HTML. Analysis It offers a wide range of analysis a wide range of features that includes a pivot table view. The tool provides enhanced GUI features (using Flash or SVG), integrated dashboard widgets, portal, and workflow integration. Moreover, Pentaho Spreadsheet Services allows a user to browse, pivot, and use chart from within MS Excel. Dashboards The dashboard offers Reporting and Analysis, which contribute content to Pentaho Dashboards. The self-service dashboard designer includes extensive built-in dashboard templates and layout. It allows business users to build personalized dashboards with little training. Data Mining Data mining tool discovers hidden patterns and indicators of future performance. It offers the most comprehensive set of machine learning algorithms from the Weka project, which includes clustering, decision trees, random forests, principal component analysis, neural networks. It allows you to view data graphically, interact with it programmatically, or use multiple data sources for reports, further analysis, and other processes. Pentaho Data Integration This component is used to integrate data wherever it exists. Rich transformation library with over 150 out-of-the-box mapping objects. It supports a wide range of data source which includes more than 30 open source and proprietary database platforms, flat files. It also helps Big Data analytics with integration and management of Hadoop data. Who are using Pentaho BI? Pentaho BI is a widely used tool by may software professionals like: Open source software programs Business analyst and researcher College students Business intelligence councilor How to Install Pentaho in AWS Following is a step by step process on How to Install Pentaho in AWS. Step 1) Click Continue to Subscribe Go to https://aws.amazon.com/marketplace/pp/prodview-mce2xdbgie4ro and click Continue Step 2) Accept Terms & Conditions On next page, Accept License Agreement Step 3) Click Continue to Configuration Proceed for Configuration Step 4) Click Continue to Launch Keep the settings default, and Click to Launch Step 5) Wait for 5 minutes for instance to launch Check the usage instructions and wait Step 6) Get Public IP Copy Public IP of the instance. Step 7) Use the public IP for Login Paste public IP of the instance to access Pentaho. Prerequisite of Pentaho Hardware requirements Software requirements Downloading and installing Bl suite Starting the Bl suite Administration of the Bl suite Hardware requirement: The Pentaho Bl Suite software does not have any fix limits on a computer or network hardware as long as you can meet the minimum software requirements. It is easy to install this Business intelligence tool. However, a recommended set of system specifications: RAM Minimum 2GB Hard drive space Minimum 1GB Processor Dual-core EM64T or AMD64 Software requirements Installation of Sun JRE 5.0 The environment can be either 32-bit or 64-bit Supported Operating systems: Linux, Solaris, Windows, Mac A workstation that has a modern web browser interface such as Chrome, Internet Explorer, Firefox To start Bl-server On Windows from the start, button click on start Bl server icon. On Linux OS run start-pentaho script on /biserver-ce/directory To start the administrator server: On Windows from start button click on start Bl enterprise server. For Linux: goto the command window and run the start-up script in /biserver-ce/administration-console/directory. To Stop administrator server: To stop the server in windows, click on stop bi-server icons. On Linux. You need to go to the terminal and goto installed directory and run stop.bat Pentaho Administration Console Report Designer: It is an advanced report creation tool. This is an ideal tool for you if you want to build a complete data-drive report. This tool offers plenty of flexibility and functionality than the ad hoc reporting capabilities of the Pentaho User Console. Design Studio: It is an Eclipse-based tool. It allows you to hand-edit a report or analysis. It is widely used to add modifications to an existing report that cannot be added with Report Designer. Aggregation Designer: This graphical tool allows you to improve Mondrian cube efficiency. Metadata Editor: It is used to add custom metadata layer to any existing data source. Pentaho Data Integration: The Kettle extract, transform, and load (ETL) tool, which enables Pentaho Tool vs. BI stack Pentaho Tool BI Stack Data Integration (PDI) ETL It offers metadata Editor It provides metadata management Pentaho BA Analytics Reports Designer Operational Reporting Saiku Ad-hoc Reporting CDE Dashboards Pentaho User Console (PUC) Governance/Monitoring Advantages of Pentaho Now in this Pentaho data integration tutorial, we will learn about some advantages of Pentaho Business Intelligence Tool: Pentaho BI is a very intuitive tool. With some basic concepts, you can work with it. Simple and easy to use Business Intelligence tool Offers a wide range of BI capabilities which includes reporting, dashboard, interactive analysis, data integration, data mining, etc. Comes with a user-friendly interface and provides various tools to Retrieve data from multiple data sources Offers single package to work on Data Has a community edition with a lot of contributors along with Enterprise edition. The capability of running on the Hadoop cluster JavaScript code written in the step components can be reused in other components. Disadvantages of Pentaho Here, are cons/drawbacks of using Pentaho BI tool: The design of the interface can be weak, and there is no unified interface for all components. Much slower tool evolution compared to other BI tools. Pentaho Business analytics offers a limited number of components. Poor community support. So, if you don’t get a working component, you need to wait till the next version is released. Summary: Pentaho is a Business Intelligence tool which provides a wide range of business intelligence solutions to the customers It offers ETL capabilities for business intelligence needs. Pentaho suites offer components like Report, Analysis, Dashboard, and Data Mining Pentaho Business Intelligence is widely used by 1) Business analyst 2) Open source software programmers 3) Researcher and 4) College Students. The installation process of Pentaho includes: 1)Hardware requirements 2) Software requirements, 3) Downloading Bl suite, 4) Starting the Bl suite, and 5) Administration of the Bl suite Important components of Pentaho Administration console are 1) Report Designer, 2) Design Studio, 3) Aggregation Designer 4) Metadata Editor 5) Pentaho Data Integration Pentaho is a Data Integration (PDI) tool while BI stack is an ETL Tool. The biggest advantage of Pentaho is that it is simple and easy to use Business Intelligence tool. The main drawback of Pentaho is that it is a much slower tool evolution compared to other BI tools You Might Like: WPF Tutorial for Beginners: How to Create Application [Example] Ruby on Rails Tutorial for Beginners with Project & Example SAP BODS Tutorial for Beginners: What is, Architecture ZooKeeper Tutorial: What is, Architecture of Apache ZooKeeper Postman Tutorial: How to Install and use Postman for API Testing Post navigation Report a Bug Next Continue Top Tutorials About About Us Advertise with Us Write For Us Contact Us Python Testing Hacking Career Suggestion SAP Career Suggestion Tool Software Testing as a Career Interesting eBook Blog Quiz SAP eBook SAP Java SQL Execute online Execute Java Online Execute Javascript Execute HTML Execute Python Selenium Cryptocurrency VPNs © Copyright - Guru99 2022 Privacy Policy | Affiliate Disclaimer | ToS Scroll to top Home TestingExpand child menu Expand Agile Testing JUnit Quality Center(ALM) Bugzilla HP Loadrunner RPA Cucumber Software Testing SAP Testing Database Testing Mobile Testing Selenium ETL Testing Mantis SoapUI JMeter Postman TEST Management JIRA QTP TestLink SAPExpand child menu Expand ABAP CRM PI/PO APO Crystal Reports PP Beginners FICO SD Basis HANA SAPUI5 BODS HR Security Tutorial BI/BW MM Solution Manager BPC QM Successfactors CO Payroll SAP Tutorial WebExpand child menu Expand Apache Java PHP SQL Server AngularJS JSP PL/SQL UML ASP.NET Kotlin PostgreSQL VB.NET C Linux Python VBScript C# MariaDB ReactJS Web Services C++ MS Access Ruby & Rails WPF CodeIgniter MySQL Scala SQLite DBMS Node.js SQL Perl JavaScript Must LearnExpand child menu Expand Accounting Embedded Systems Operating System Algorithms Ethical Hacking PMP Android Excel Tutorial Photoshop Blockchain Go Programming Project Management Business Analyst IoT Reviews Build Website ITIL Salesforce Cloud Computing Jenkins SEO COBOL MIS Software Engineering Compiler Design Movie VBA Courses Networking VPN Big DataExpand child menu Expand AWS Hive Power BI Big Data Informatica Qlikview Cassandra MicroStrategy Tableau Cognos MongoDB Talend Data Warehousing NiFi ZooKeeper DevOps OBIEE Pentaho HBase Live ProjectExpand child menu Expand Live Agile Testing Live Selenium Project Live HP ALM Live Selenium 2 Live Java Project Live Security Testing Live Mobile Testing Live Testing Project Live Payment Gateway Live Testing 2 Live PHP Project Live Telecom Live Projects Hub Live UFT/QTP Testing Live Python Project Live SEO Project AIExpand child menu Expand Artificial Intelligence PyTorch Data Science R Programming Keras TensorFlow NLTK Blog Toggle Menu Close Search for: Search