https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/tag/python-list-functions/ python-list-functions Archives - GeeksforGeeks Skip to content Courses For Working Professionals LIVE DSA Live Classes System Design Java Backend Development Full Stack LIVE Explore More Self-Paced DSA- Self Paced SDE Theory All Development Courses Explore More For Students LIVE Competitive Programming GATE Live Course 2023 Data Science Explore More Self-Paced DSA- Self Paced CIP JAVA / Python / C++ Explore More School Courses School Guide Python Programming Learn To Make Apps Explore more All Courses Tutorials Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Asymptotic Analysis Worst, Average and Best Cases Asymptotic Notations Little o and little omega notations Lower and Upper Bound Theory Analysis of Loops Solving Recurrences Amortized Analysis What does 'Space Complexity' mean ? Pseudo-polynomial Algorithms Polynomial Time Approximation Scheme A Time Complexity Question Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Bitwise Algorithms Randomized Algorithms Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch and Bound All Algorithms Data Structures Arrays Linked List Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings All Data Structures Interview Corner Company Preparation Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competititve Programming Design Patterns System Design Tutorial Multiple Choice Quizzes Languages C C++ Java Python C# JavaScript jQuery SQL PHP Scala Perl Go Language HTML CSS Kotlin ML & Data Science Machine Learning Data Science CS Subjects Mathematics Operating System DBMS Computer Networks Computer Organization and Architecture Theory of Computation Compiler Design Digital Logic Software Engineering GATE GATE Computer Science Notes Last Minute Notes GATE CS Solved Papers GATE CS Original Papers and Official Keys GATE 2021 Dates GATE CS 2021 Syllabus Important Topics for GATE CS Web Technologies HTML CSS JavaScript AngularJS ReactJS NodeJS Bootstrap jQuery PHP Software Designs Software Design Patterns System Design Tutorial School Learning School Programming Mathematics Number System Algebra Trigonometry Statistics Probability Geometry Mensuration Calculus Maths Notes (Class 8-12) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes Class 12 Notes NCERT Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution RD Sharma Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution Physics Notes (Class 8-11) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes Chemistry Notes Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes CS Exams/PSUs ISRO ISRO CS Original Papers and Official Keys ISRO CS Solved Papers ISRO CS Syllabus for Scientist/Engineer Exam UGC NET UGC NET CS Notes Paper II UGC NET CS Notes Paper III UGC NET CS Solved Papers Student Campus Ambassador Program School Ambassador Program Project Geek of the Month Campus Geek of the Month Placement Course Competititve Programming Testimonials Student Chapter Geek on the Top Internship Careers Jobs Apply for Jobs Post a Job Hire with Us Know about Jobathon Jobathon Practice All DSA Problems Problem of the Day Interview Series: Weekly Contests Bi-Wizard Coding: School Contests Contests and Events Practice SDE Sheet Curated DSA Lists Top 50 Array Problems Top 50 String Problems Top 50 Tree Problems Top 50 Graph Problems Top 50 DP Problems Write Come write articles for us and get featured Practice Learn and code with the best industry experts Premium Get access to ad-free content, doubt assistance and more! Jobs Come and find your dream job with us Geeks Digest Quizzes Geeks Campus Gblog Articles IDE Campus Mantri Home Saved Videos Courses GBlog Puzzles What's New ? Change Language Data Structures Algorithms Interview Preparation Topic-wise Practice C++ Java Python Competitive Programming Machine Learning HTML SDE Sheet Puzzles GFG School Projects ▲ Tag Archives: python-list-functions Python List max() Method Python list max() function returns the maximum value present in the list. Python List max() Method Syntax: Syntax: max(listname) Parameter: listname : Name of list… Read More python-list python-list-functions Python Python List extend() Method The Python’s List extend() method iterates over an iterable like string, list, tuple, etc., and adds each element of the iterable to the end of… Read More python-list python-list-functions Python Python List append() Method Easy The Python List append() method is used for appending and adding elements to the end of the List. Syntax: list.append(item) Parameters: item: an item to… Read More python-list python-list-functions Python Python List clear() Method The Python List clear() method is used for removing all items from the List. Syntax: list.clear() Parameters: The clear() method doesn’t take any parameters Returns:… Read More python-list python-list-functions Python Generate all possible permutations of words in a Sentence Easy Given a string S, the task is to print permutations of all words in a sentence. Examples: Input: S = “sky is blue”Output: sky is… Read More permutation Python list-programs python-list-functions Combinatorial Python Programs Strings Python program to print words from a sentence with highest and lowest ASCII value of characters Hard Given a string S of length N, representing a sentence, the task is to print the words with the highest and lowest average of ASCII… Read More python-list-functions Mathematical Python Programs Searching Strings Technical Scripter Difference between Append, Extend and Insert in Python Basic Lists are just like dynamically sized arrays, declared in other languages (vector in C++ and ArrayList in Java). Lists need not be homogeneous always which… Read More python-list python-list-functions Difference Between Python How to remove an item from the List in Python? Easy Python Lists have various in-built methods to remove items from the list. Apart from these, we can also use del statement to remove an element… Read More python-list python-list-functions Python Difference Between ‘+’ and ‘append’ in Python Medium Using ‘+’ operator to add an element in the list in Python: The use of the ‘+’ operator causes Python to access each element of… Read More python-list python-list-functions Difference Between Python How to find the current capacity of a list in Python List in Python is mainly implementation of dynamic sized arrays (like ArrayList in Java or vector in C++). Capacity of a list means number of… Read More python-list python-list-functions Python Python | Replacing Nth occurrence of multiple characters in a String with the given character Easy Given a String S, a character array ch[], a number N and a replacing character, the task is to replace every Nth occurrence of each… Read More Python-array python-list python-list-functions Python Strings Python list copy() method Basic Python List Copy() methods return a shallow copy of a list(returns a new list without modifying the original lists). Sometimes, there is a need to… Read More python-list python-list-functions Python Different ways to clear a list in Python Easy There are many ways of clearing the list through methods of different constructs offered by Python language. Let’s try to understand each of the method… Read More Python list-programs python-list python-list-functions Python Python iter() method python iter() method returns the iterator object, it is used to convert an iterable to the iterator. Syntax : iter(obj, sentinel) Parameters : obj :… Read More Python-Built-in-functions python-list python-list-functions Python Binary Search (bisect) in Python Easy Binary Search is a technique used to search element in a sorted list. In this article, we will looking at library functions to do Binary… Read More Binary Search python searching-exercises python-list python-list-functions Divide and Conquer Python Python Programs Searching Page 1 of 3123» What's New Python Programming Foundation -Self Paced Course View Details Data Structures & Algorithms- Self Paced Course View Details Complete Interview Preparation- Self Paced Course View Details Improve your Coding Skills with PracticeTry It! A-143, 9th Floor, Sovereign Corporate Tower, Sector-136, Noida, Uttar Pradesh - 201305 feedback@geeksforgeeks.org Company About Us Careers In Media Contact Us Privacy Policy Copyright Policy Learn Algorithms Data Structures SDE Cheat Sheet Machine learning CS Subjects Video Tutorials Courses News Top News Technology Work & Career Business Finance Lifestyle Knowledge Languages Python Java CPP Golang C# SQL Kotlin Web Development Web Tutorials Django Tutorial HTML JavaScript Bootstrap ReactJS NodeJS Contribute Write an Article Improve an Article Pick Topics to Write Write Interview Experience Internships Video Internship @geeksforgeeks , Some rights reserved We use cookies to ensure you have the best browsing experience on our website. By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understood our Cookie Policy & Privacy Policy Got It ! Start Your Coding Journey Now! Login Register