https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/rd-sharma-class-9-solutions/?ref=ghm RD Sharma Class 9 Solutions - GeeksforGeeks Skip to content Courses For Working Professionals LIVE DSA Live Classes System Design Java Backend Development Full Stack LIVE Explore More Self-Paced DSA- Self Paced SDE Theory All Development Courses Explore More For Students LIVE Competitive Programming GATE Live Course 2023 Data Science Explore More Self-Paced DSA- Self Paced CIP JAVA / Python / C++ Explore More School Courses School Guide Python Programming Learn To Make Apps Explore more All Courses Tutorials Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Asymptotic Analysis Worst, Average and Best Cases Asymptotic Notations Little o and little omega notations Lower and Upper Bound Theory Analysis of Loops Solving Recurrences Amortized Analysis What does 'Space Complexity' mean ? Pseudo-polynomial Algorithms Polynomial Time Approximation Scheme A Time Complexity Question Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Bitwise Algorithms Randomized Algorithms Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch and Bound All Algorithms Data Structures Arrays Linked List Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings All Data Structures Interview Corner Company Preparation Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competititve Programming Design Patterns System Design Tutorial Multiple Choice Quizzes Languages C C++ Java Python C# JavaScript jQuery SQL PHP Scala Perl Go Language HTML CSS Kotlin ML & Data Science Machine Learning Data Science CS Subjects Mathematics Operating System DBMS Computer Networks Computer Organization and Architecture Theory of Computation Compiler Design Digital Logic Software Engineering GATE GATE Computer Science Notes Last Minute Notes GATE CS Solved Papers GATE CS Original Papers and Official Keys GATE 2021 Dates GATE CS 2021 Syllabus Important Topics for GATE CS Web Technologies HTML CSS JavaScript AngularJS ReactJS NodeJS Bootstrap jQuery PHP Software Designs Software Design Patterns System Design Tutorial School Learning School Programming Mathematics Number System Algebra Trigonometry Statistics Probability Geometry Mensuration Calculus Maths Notes (Class 8-12) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes Class 12 Notes NCERT Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution RD Sharma Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution Physics Notes (Class 8-11) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes Chemistry Notes Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes CS Exams/PSUs ISRO ISRO CS Original Papers and Official Keys ISRO CS Solved Papers ISRO CS Syllabus for Scientist/Engineer Exam UGC NET UGC NET CS Notes Paper II UGC NET CS Notes Paper III UGC NET CS Solved Papers Student Campus Ambassador Program School Ambassador Program Project Geek of the Month Campus Geek of the Month Placement Course Competititve Programming Testimonials Student Chapter Geek on the Top Internship Careers Jobs Apply for Jobs Post a Job Hire with Us Know about Jobathon Jobathon Practice All DSA Problems Problem of the Day Interview Series: Weekly Contests Bi-Wizard Coding: School Contests Contests and Events Practice SDE Sheet Curated DSA Lists Top 50 Array Problems Top 50 String Problems Top 50 Tree Problems Top 50 Graph Problems Top 50 DP Problems Write Come write articles for us and get featured Practice Learn and code with the best industry experts Premium Get access to ad-free content, doubt assistance and more! Jobs Come and find your dream job with us Geeks Digest Quizzes Geeks Campus Gblog Articles IDE Campus Mantri Home Saved Videos Courses GBlog Puzzles What's New ? Change Language Data Structures Algorithms Interview Preparation Topic-wise Practice C++ Java Python Competitive Programming Machine Learning HTML SDE Sheet Puzzles GFG School Projects Related Articles ▲ Related Articles GeeksforGeeks School What is a Storage Device? Definition, Types, Examples Number System in Maths What is Multimedia? Input and Output Devices Wired and Wireless Networking Newton's First Law of Motion Algebra Mid Point Theorem - Quadrilaterals | Class 9 Maths Statistics Equation of Motion by Graphical Method Calculus Real Numbers Pure and Impure Substances Mean, Median, Mode, and Range - Statistics | Class 9 Maths Probability in Maths Trigonometry Number System and Arithmetic Saturated and Unsaturated Solutions Geometry CBSE Class 9 Maths Notes Introduction to Microsoft PowerPoint Acceleration due to Gravity NCERT Solutions for Class 9 Maths Theorem - The sum of opposite angles of a cyclic quadrilateral is 180° | Class 9 Maths Mensuration Separation of Mixtures Theorem - Angle opposite to equal sides of an isosceles triangle are equal | Class 9 Maths Reflection of Sound Homogeneous and Heterogeneous Mixtures GeeksforGeeks School What is a Storage Device? Definition, Types, Examples Number System in Maths What is Multimedia? Input and Output Devices Wired and Wireless Networking Newton's First Law of Motion Algebra Mid Point Theorem - Quadrilaterals | Class 9 Maths Statistics Equation of Motion by Graphical Method Calculus Real Numbers Pure and Impure Substances Mean, Median, Mode, and Range - Statistics | Class 9 Maths Probability in Maths Trigonometry Number System and Arithmetic Saturated and Unsaturated Solutions Geometry CBSE Class 9 Maths Notes Introduction to Microsoft PowerPoint Acceleration due to Gravity NCERT Solutions for Class 9 Maths Theorem - The sum of opposite angles of a cyclic quadrilateral is 180° | Class 9 Maths Mensuration Separation of Mixtures Theorem - Angle opposite to equal sides of an isosceles triangle are equal | Class 9 Maths Reflection of Sound Homogeneous and Heterogeneous Mixtures RD Sharma Class 9 Solutions View Discussion Improve Article Save Article Like Article Last Updated : 27 Jul, 2022 RD Sharma Solutions for class 9 provides vast knowledge about the concepts through the chapter-wise solutions. These solutions help to solve problems of higher difficulty and to ensure students have a good practice of all types of questions that can be framed in the examination. Referring to the solution also helps the students to encourage them to the learning process through easy ways. Chapter 1: Number Systems The chapter Number Systems in this book is an important chapter of arithmetic. This helps to learn about whole numbers, integers, and rational numbers. The topics are well explained with the help of real number lines. As a real number can be rational or irrational, so every real number is represented by a unique point on the number line. Further, the decimal expressions of rational and irrational numbers, how to represent real numbers on the number lines, the process of successive magnification, and operations on real numbers are discussed in its total four exercises present in this chapter. Exercise 1.1 Exercise 1.2 Exercise 1.3 Exercise 1.4 Chapter 2: Exponents and Powers of Real Numbers Chapter 2 of this book is the exponents and powers of real numbers that help to learn about the laws of exponents for real numbers. It explains that when a, n, and m are natural numbers and a is called the base and m and n are the exponents; there are rules that can be applied to a number whose base is a positive real number, and the exponents are rational or fractional numbers. This chapter consists of two exercises and of different difficulty levels. Exercise 2.1 Exercise 2.2 Set 1, Set 2 Chapter 3: Rationalisation Chapter 3, Rationalisation is chapter introduces the concept of rationalisation, which is a process of eliminating the radicals of the denominator of a fraction. Here, are a total of two exercises in this chapter that helps to learn about some important algebraic identities and how to simplify algebraic expressions using identities. Exercise 3.1 Exercise 3.2 Set 1, Set 2 Chapter 4: Algebraic Identities Chapter 4 of this book discusses the concept of the algebraic identity for the square of a trinomial and the sum and difference of cubes identities. In this chapter, the concepts of writing equations in expanded form, evaluating equations, simplifying equations, and finding cubes of binomial expressions using the identities learned. The chapter consists of a total of four exercises only. Exercise 4.1 Set 1, Set 2 Exercise 4.2 Exercise 4.3 Set 1, Set 2 Exercise 4.4 Chapter 5: Factorization of Algebraic Expressions This chapter provides detailed knowledge in four exercises about the methods of factorization and how to simplify an algebraic expression using the factorization method. A term is broken into smaller factors in the process of factorization of algebraic expressions, which are made up of different variables, integer constants, and basic arithmetic operations of algebra. Exercise 5.1 Exercise 5.2 Set 1, Set 2 Exercise 5.3 Exercise 5.4 Chapter 6: Factorization of Polynomials The present chapter is based on algebra that is it helps to learn about polynomials and concepts on the factorization of Polynomials, terms, and coefficients. Further, it also helps to learn the concept of the remainder theorem and factor theorem and their use in the factorization of polynomials. In this chapter, there are five exercises that consist of the problems related to the mentioned topics. Exercise 6.1 Exercise 6.2 Exercise 6.3 Exercise 6.4 Set 1, Set 2 Exercise 6.5 Set 1, Set 2 Chapter 7: Introduction to Euclid’s Geometry Chapter 7 has only one exercise that covers knowledge about properties of point and lines, parallel lines, intersecting lines, line segment, interior point of a line segment, congruence of line segments, length axioms of a line segment, and distance between two points. Exercise 7.1 Chapter 8: Lines and Angles In this chapter, the basic terms, definitions, and symbols about lines and angles are learned. The problems are basically covered on the topics like the intersecting and non-intersecting or parallel lines, linear pair of angles and axioms, and theorems related to it. Further, the topics like parallel lines and transversals followed by the interior and exterior angles made by the intersection and the related axioms and theorems are also covered. These topics are covered in four exercises only. Exercise 8.1 Exercise 8.2 Set 1, Set 2 Exercise 8.3 Exercise 8.4 Set 1, Set 2, Set 3 Chapter 9: Triangle and Its Angles There are only two exercises based on the congruency in the geometrical figures like triangles, circles, and squares. This chapter helps to learn about the equalities of angles and sides in a triangle. Exercise 9.1 Exercise 9.2 Chapter 10: Congruent Triangles In this chapter 10, there some other criteria for the congruence of triangles are discussed. This chapter has six exercises that help to learn about side-angle-side (SAS), angle-side-angle (ASA), angle-angle-side (AAS), side-side-side (SSS), and RHS congruence rules in triangles and the inequalities in a triangle. Exercise 10.1 Exercise 10.2 Exercise 10.3 Exercise 10.4 Exercise 10.5 Exercise 10.6 Chapter 11: Coordinate Geometry The coordinate Geometry chapter discussed in this book introduces a very important topic of coordinate geometry covered in its one exercise, the Cartesian system and the terms origin, positive and negative directions, planes, coordinate axes, and quadrants. Exercise 11.1 Chapter 12: Heron’s Formula Chapter 12 of this book introduced Heron’s formula, which is used for finding the area of different types of triangles with respect to their three sides discussed through its two exercises. Also, this chapter helps to learn how to apply Heron’s formula for obtaining formulas for plane figures such as quadrilaterals, squares, rectangles, and some combination figures. Exercise 12.1 Exercise 12.2 Chapter 13: Linear Equations in Two Variables This chapter discusses the concept of linear equations and their solution techniques. There are total four exercises that help to learn the plot of a graph of a linear equation in two variables and that every point (a, b) on the line AB gives a solution x = a, y = b of the equation, and any point, which does not lie on the line AB, is not a solution of the given equation. Next, this provides the knowledge about equations of lines parallel to the x-axis and y-axis and how the equation y = mx represents a line passing through the origin. Exercise 13.1 Exercise 13.2 Exercise 13.3 Set 1, Set 2 Exercise 13.4 Chapter 14: Quadrilaterals This is an important chapter from geometry, that helps to learn about the types of quadrilaterals such as trapezium, rhombus, and square. Here you will also learn about the angle sum property of quadrilaterals. Further, this chapter helps to learn about several theorems related to the properties of a parallelogram and the mid-point theorem. All of these concepts are covered in detail in the total four exercises given in this chapter. Exercise 14.1 Exercise 14.2 Exercise 14.3 Exercise 14.4 Set 1, Set 2 Chapter 15: Areas of Parallelograms and Triangles This chapter covered several rules and theorems related to the determination of the area of parallelograms and triangles, which include these figures on the same base and between the same parallels, other geometric figures, regions, and some area axioms. Such concepts are asked in a total of three exercises in this chapter. Exercise 15.1 Exercise 15.2 Exercise 15.3 Set 1, Set 2, Set 3 Chapter 16: Circles Circles chapter in this book contains four exercises based on the important topic like the definition of a circle and the terms circumference, segments, sector, chord, and semicircle. There are some theorems related to the angle subtended by a chord at a point, and perpendicular from the Centre to a chord discussed in this chapter. Exercise 16.1 Exercise 16.2 Exercise 16.3 Exercise 16.4 Chapter 17: Constructions Construction is a crucial chapter from geometry, as this chapter helps to learn about the constructions of the bisector of a line segment, bisector of a given angle, triangles with accuracy using only a compass and a ruler (without using protractors). There are only three exercises based on the mentioned topics covered in this chapter. Exercise 17.1 Exercise 17.2 Exercise 17.3 Chapter 18: Surface Area and Volume of a Cuboid and a Cube This is an important chapter from geometry, as this helps to learn about the volume of a cuboid is given by the product of length, height, and width of the cuboid. Further, the total surface area of a cuboid is the sum of the areas of its six faces, the surface area and volume of a cube can be learned through a total of two exercises. Exercise 18.1 Exercise 18.2 Set 1, Set 2 Chapter 19: Surface Area and Volume of a Right Circular Cylinder Chapter 19 introduces the concept of the right circular cylinder and some important definitions of the related terms such as base, axis, radius, height, and lateral surface. This chapter discusses each and every topic covered through the problems mentioned in its two exercises. Exercise 19.1 Exercise 19.2 Set 1, Set 2 Chapter 20: Surface Area and Volume of a Right Circular Cone There are two exercises that are based on the concepts of the cone and its dimensions. Here in this chapter, the questions are asked to determine the terms like the Curved Surface Area (CSA) of the cone is occupied by the surface, excluding the base, and its total surface area (TSA) is the area occupied by the surface, including the curved part and the base. Exercise 20.1 Set 1, Set 2 Exercise 20.2 Set 1, Set 2 Chapter 21: Surface Area and Volume of a Sphere This chapter contains the problems that need to find the surface area and volume of the sphere, to find the surface area of a sphere when its radius (r) or diameter is given. This chapter comprises two exercises that covered the mentioned topics thoroughly. Exercise 21.1 Exercise 21.2 Set 1, Set 2 Chapter 22: Tabular Representation of Statistical Data This chapter explains an important portion of statistics like the statistical data may be of primary or secondary types, and the collection of data needs to be followed by an effective arrangement in tabular form for study. Further, the methods of data are presented in an array in either ascending or descending way or can be presented in alphabetical order. These mentioned topics are so covered in two exercises only. Exercise 22.1 Set 1, Set 2 Exercise 22.2 Chapter 23: Graphical Representation of Statistical Data Chapter 23 covers the important and practical concepts of statistics. This chapter has two exercises that help to learn the graphical representation of data in the form of bar graphs and histograms. It also explains how graphs help us to understand the relationship between variables and measure the position or values of one variable when the other variable is changed by a certain value. Exercise 23.1 Set 1, Set 2 Exercise 23.2 Set 1, Set 2 Chapter 24: Measures of Central Tendency This chapter contains four exercises based on the concept of measure of central tendency which is the typical or central value of a probability distribution. The measure of central tendency is used to signify a group of data by a single value representative of the central location. These measures are mean, average, median, and mode. This chapter helps to learn about these terms and their properties in detail. Exercise 24.1 Set 1, Set 2 Exercise 24.2 Exercise 24.3 Exercise 24.4 Chapter 25: Probability There is only one exercise present in this chapter. The chapter first introduces the concept of probability and various approaches related to it. Further, the experimental or empirical approach to probability and important terms such as a trial, an elementary event, and a compound event are also learned in this chapter. Exercise 25.1 Set 1, Set 2 My Personal Notes arrow_drop_up Save Like Previous Measure of Dispersion Next What is Pressure? Recommended Articles Page : Class 11 RD Sharma Solutions - Chapter 31 Derivatives - Exercise 31.1 17, Dec 20 Class 10 RD Sharma Solutions - Chapter 11 Constructions - Exercise 11.2 | Set 1 21, May 21 Class 12 RD Sharma Solutions - Chapter 9 Continuity - Exercise 9.1 | Set 2 18, May 21 Class 9 RD Sharma Solutions- Chapter 21 Surface Area and Volume of a Sphere - Exercise 21.1 15, Jan 21 Class 11 RD Sharma Solutions - Chapter 12 Mathematical Induction - Exercise 12.1 08, Jan 20 Class 10 RD Sharma Solutions - Chapter 8 Quadratic Equations - Exercise 8.3 | Set 1 08, Mar 21 Class 12 RD Sharma Solutions - Chapter 33 Binomial Distribution - Exercise 33.1 | Set 1 14, Jul 21 Class 11 RD Sharma Solutions - Chapter 3 Functions - Exercise 3.3 20, Apr 21 Class 9 RD Sharma Solutions - Chapter 23 Graphical Representation of Statistical Data - Exercise 23.1 | Set 1 17, Mar 21 Class 12 RD Sharma Solutions - Chapter 23 Algebra of Vectors - Exercise 23.6 | Set 1 24, Mar 21 Class 9 RD Sharma Solutions - Chapter 10 Congruent Triangles- Exercise 10.6 24, Mar 21 Class 11 RD Sharma Solutions - Chapter 7 Trigonometric Ratios of Compound Angles - Exercise 7.1 | Set 1 23, Apr 21 Class 11 RD Sharma Solutions - Chapter 33 Probability - Exercise 33.3 | Set 1 01, May 21 Class 12 RD Sharma Solutions - Chapter 12 Higher Order Derivatives - Exercise 12.1 | Set 1 24, Mar 21 Class 12 RD Sharma Solutions- Chapter 5 Algebra of Matrices - Exercise 5.1 | Set 2 28, Dec 20 Class 11 RD Sharma Solutions - Chapter 19 Arithmetic Progressions- Exercise 19.7 | Set 2 10, Jan 21 Class 12 RD Sharma Solutions - Chapter 19 Indefinite Integrals - Exercise 19.13 | Set 1 08, Apr 21 Class 8 RD Sharma Solutions - Chapter 9 Linear Equation In One Variable - Exercise 9.3 | Set 1 12, Dec 20 Class 12 RD Sharma Solutions - Chapter 22 Differential Equations - Exercise 22.9 | Set 3 09, Mar 21 Class 12 RD Sharma Solutions - Chapter 20 Definite Integrals - Exercise 20.5 | Set 3 11, May 21 Class 8 RD Sharma Solutions - Chapter 14 Compound Interest - Exercise 14.4 | Set 1 08, Dec 20 Class 10 RD Sharma Solutions - Chapter 3 Pair of Linear Equations in Two Variables - Exercise 3.9 17, Apr 21 Class 11 RD Sharma Solutions - Chapter 33 Probability - Exercise 33.3 | Set 3 01, May 21 Class 10 RD Sharma Solutions - Chapter 9 Arithmetic Progressions - Exercise 9.6 | Set 3 01, Apr 21 Article Contributed By : GeeksforGeeks Vote for difficulty Easy Normal Medium Hard Expert Improved By : anjalishukla1859 Article Tags : RD Sharma Class-9 Class 9 RD Sharma Solutions School Learning School Mathematics Report Issue Writing code in comment? Please use ide.geeksforgeeks.org, generate link and share the link here. Load Comments What's New School Guide: Roadmap For School Students View Details Data Structures & Algorithms- Self Paced Course View Details Complete Interview Preparation- Self Paced Course View Details Improve your Coding Skills with PracticeTry It! A-143, 9th Floor, Sovereign Corporate Tower, Sector-136, Noida, Uttar Pradesh - 201305 feedback@geeksforgeeks.org Company About Us Careers In Media Contact Us Privacy Policy Copyright Policy Learn Algorithms Data Structures SDE Cheat Sheet Machine learning CS Subjects Video Tutorials Courses News Top News Technology Work & Career Business Finance Lifestyle Knowledge Languages Python Java CPP Golang C# SQL Kotlin Web Development Web Tutorials Django Tutorial HTML JavaScript Bootstrap ReactJS NodeJS Contribute Write an Article Improve an Article Pick Topics to Write Write Interview Experience Internships Video Internship @geeksforgeeks , Some rights reserved We use cookies to ensure you have the best browsing experience on our website. By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understood our Cookie Policy & Privacy Policy Got It ! Start Your Coding Journey Now! Login Register