https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/category/data-structures/stack/ Stack Archives - GeeksforGeeks Skip to content Courses For Working Professionals LIVE DSA Live Classes System Design Java Backend Development Full Stack LIVE Explore More Self-Paced DSA- Self Paced SDE Theory All Development Courses Explore More For Students LIVE Competitive Programming GATE Live Course 2023 Data Science Explore More Self-Paced DSA- Self Paced CIP JAVA / Python / C++ Explore More School Courses School Guide Python Programming Learn To Make Apps Explore more All Courses Tutorials Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Asymptotic Analysis Worst, Average and Best Cases Asymptotic Notations Little o and little omega notations Lower and Upper Bound Theory Analysis of Loops Solving Recurrences Amortized Analysis What does 'Space Complexity' mean ? Pseudo-polynomial Algorithms Polynomial Time Approximation Scheme A Time Complexity Question Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Bitwise Algorithms Randomized Algorithms Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch and Bound All Algorithms Data Structures Arrays Linked List Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings All Data Structures Interview Corner Company Preparation Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competititve Programming Design Patterns System Design Tutorial Multiple Choice Quizzes Languages C C++ Java Python C# JavaScript jQuery SQL PHP Scala Perl Go Language HTML CSS Kotlin ML & Data Science Machine Learning Data Science CS Subjects Mathematics Operating System DBMS Computer Networks Computer Organization and Architecture Theory of Computation Compiler Design Digital Logic Software Engineering GATE GATE Computer Science Notes Last Minute Notes GATE CS Solved Papers GATE CS Original Papers and Official Keys GATE 2021 Dates GATE CS 2021 Syllabus Important Topics for GATE CS Web Technologies HTML CSS JavaScript AngularJS ReactJS NodeJS Bootstrap jQuery PHP Software Designs Software Design Patterns System Design Tutorial School Learning School Programming Mathematics Number System Algebra Trigonometry Statistics Probability Geometry Mensuration Calculus Maths Notes (Class 8-12) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes Class 12 Notes NCERT Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution RD Sharma Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution Physics Notes (Class 8-11) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes Chemistry Notes Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes CS Exams/PSUs ISRO ISRO CS Original Papers and Official Keys ISRO CS Solved Papers ISRO CS Syllabus for Scientist/Engineer Exam UGC NET UGC NET CS Notes Paper II UGC NET CS Notes Paper III UGC NET CS Solved Papers Student Campus Ambassador Program School Ambassador Program Project Geek of the Month Campus Geek of the Month Placement Course Competititve Programming Testimonials Student Chapter Geek on the Top Internship Careers Jobs Apply for Jobs Post a Job Hire with Us Know about Jobathon Jobathon Practice All DSA Problems Problem of the Day Interview Series: Weekly Contests Bi-Wizard Coding: School Contests Contests and Events Practice SDE Sheet Curated DSA Lists Top 50 Array Problems Top 50 String Problems Top 50 Tree Problems Top 50 Graph Problems Top 50 DP Problems Write Come write articles for us and get featured Practice Learn and code with the best industry experts Premium Get access to ad-free content, doubt assistance and more! Jobs Come and find your dream job with us Geeks Digest Quizzes Geeks Campus Gblog Articles IDE Campus Mantri Home Saved Videos Courses GBlog Puzzles What's New ? Change Language Data Structures Algorithms Interview Preparation Topic-wise Practice C++ Java Python Competitive Programming Machine Learning HTML SDE Sheet Puzzles GFG School Projects ▲ Category Archives: Stack What is the Stack Size Estimation What is stack size estimation? Stack size estimation is the process of forecasting the size of the stack that an operating system might use for… Read More memory-management Picked Operating Systems Stack Top Data Structures That Every Programmer Must Know A Data Structure organizes and stores data in a computer so that we can perform operations on the data more efficiently. There are many diverse… Read More Arrays Binary Search Tree Data Structures GBlog Graph Hash Heap Linked List Matrix Queue Stack Strings Tree Find 132 Pattern from given Array Medium Given an array arr[] of size N. The task is to check if the array has 3 elements in indices i, j and k such… Read More Arrays Pattern Searching Stack What is the time efficiency of the push(), pop(), isEmpty() and peek() operations of Stacks? Medium Stack is a linear data structure that follows the LIFO (last in first out) order i.e., the data are entered from one end and while… Read More Complexity-analysis Picked Analysis Stack How can the stack memory be increased? Medium A Stack is a temporary memory address space that is used to hold arguments and automatic variables during the invocation of a subprogram or function… Read More memory-management Picked Operating Systems Stack Why do we need Prefix and Postfix notations? Prefix Notation: Prefix notation is the notation in which operators are placed before the corresponding operands in the expression. Example: Infix notation: A + B… Read More Picked regular-expression Stack What is the Variable stack size ? Expert What variable stack size is and how does it affect computer networks? A variable stack depth (VSD) means that the maximum number of frames the… Read More memory-management Picked Operating Systems Stack Why and when to use Stack or Queue instead of Arrays/Lists? Basic Stack: A stack is a linear data structure in which elements are accessed, inserted and deleted from one end called the top of the stack.… Read More Picked Stack Dynamic Connectivity | Set 2 (DSU with Rollback) Dynamic connectivity, in general, refers to the storage of the connectivity of the components of a graph, where the edges change between some or all… Read More Advanced Data Structure Competitive Programming Stack What is Data Structure: Types, Classifications and Applications Easy Data structures are an integral part of computers used for the arrangement of data in memory. They are essential and responsible for organizing, processing, accessing,… Read More Arrays Data Structures GBlog Graph Linked List Queue Stack Strings Tree Applications, Advantages and Disadvantages of Stack Easy Stack is a simple linear data structure used for storing data. Stack follows the LIFO(Last In First Out) strategy that states that the element that… Read More Picked Stack Implementation of stack using Doubly Linked List Stack and doubly linked lists are two important data structures with their own benefits. Stack is a data structure that follows the LIFO technique and… Read More doubly linked list Picked Linked List Stack Find common elements of Stack and Queue Given a stack of M elements and a queue of N elements in sorted order. The task is to find out the common elements of… Read More two-pointer-algorithm Queue Searching Stack Minimize deletions such that no even index Array element is same as next element Given an array arr[], the task is to find the minimum number of deletion operations required such that: The newly created array should have an… Read More Arrays Greedy Stack Maximum size rectangle binary sub-matrix with all 1s | Set 2 Hard Given a binary matrix mat[][] of size N*M, find the maximum size rectangle binary-sub-matrix with all 1’s. Examples: Input: mat[][] = { {0, 1, 1,… Read More Amazon Matrix Stack Page 1 of 2512345...1020...»Last » What's New Amazon SDE Preparation Test Series View Details Data Structures & Algorithms- Self Paced Course View Details Complete Interview Preparation- Self Paced Course View Details Improve your Coding Skills with PracticeTry It! A-143, 9th Floor, Sovereign Corporate Tower, Sector-136, Noida, Uttar Pradesh - 201305 feedback@geeksforgeeks.org Company About Us Careers In Media Contact Us Privacy Policy Copyright Policy Learn Algorithms Data Structures SDE Cheat Sheet Machine learning CS Subjects Video Tutorials Courses News Top News Technology Work & Career Business Finance Lifestyle Knowledge Languages Python Java CPP Golang C# SQL Kotlin Web Development Web Tutorials Django Tutorial HTML JavaScript Bootstrap ReactJS NodeJS Contribute Write an Article Improve an Article Pick Topics to Write Write Interview Experience Internships Video Internship @geeksforgeeks , Some rights reserved We use cookies to ensure you have the best browsing experience on our website. By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understood our Cookie Policy & Privacy Policy Got It ! Start Your Coding Journey Now! Login Register