https://www.guru99.com/terms-of-service Terms of Use Skip to content Home Testing Expand Agile Testing JUnit Quality Center(ALM) Bugzilla HP Loadrunner RPA Cucumber Software Testing SAP Testing Database Testing Mobile Testing Selenium ETL Testing Mantis SoapUI JMeter Postman TEST Management JIRA QTP TestLink SAP Expand ABAP CRM PI/PO APO Crystal Reports PP Beginners FICO SD Basis HANA SAPUI5 BODS HR Security Tutorial BI/BW MM Solution Manager BPC QM Successfactors CO Payroll SAP Tutorial Web Expand Apache Java PHP SQL Server AngularJS JSP PL/SQL UML ASP.NET Kotlin PostgreSQL VB.NET C Linux Python VBScript C# MariaDB ReactJS Web Services C++ MS Access Ruby & Rails WPF CodeIgniter MySQL Scala SQLite DBMS Node.js SQL Perl JavaScript Must Learn Expand Accounting Embedded Systems Operating System Algorithms Ethical Hacking PMP Android Excel Tutorial Photoshop Blockchain Go Programming Project Management Business Analyst IoT Reviews Build Website ITIL Salesforce Cloud Computing Jenkins SEO COBOL MIS Software Engineering Compiler Design Movie VBA Courses Networking VPN Big Data Expand AWS Hive Power BI Big Data Informatica Qlikview Cassandra MicroStrategy Tableau Cognos MongoDB Talend Data Warehousing NiFi ZooKeeper DevOps OBIEE Pentaho HBase Live Project Expand Live Agile Testing Live Selenium Project Live HP ALM Live Selenium 2 Live Java Project Live Security Testing Live Mobile Testing Live Testing Project Live Payment Gateway Live Testing 2 Live PHP Project Live Telecom Live Projects Hub Live UFT/QTP Testing Live Python Project Live SEO Project AI Expand Artificial Intelligence PyTorch Data Science R Programming Keras TensorFlow NLTK Blog Search Toggle Menu Terms of Use The following terms of use will govern the use of this website guru99.com and all its sub-sites and micro-sites. The domain name www.guru99.com (hereinafter referred to as “Website”) and its Mobile Apps are owned by Guru99 Tech Pvt Ltd bearing CIN No. (U72900GJ2013PTC074450), a company incorporated under the Companies Act, 2013 with its registered office situated at Ahmedabad City – 3800015, Gujarat, India. (hereinafter referred to as “Guru99” or Company). Guru99 is a leading Edu-tech Company that provides online courses in the form of text and videos though our Website and Mobile Application. Extent of the Terms of Use These Terms & Conditions (“Terms”) are set between Guru99 Tech Pvt Ltd (“Company/We/Us/Our”) and its users (“User/You/Your/Students/Instructors/Publishers”) and will govern the use of the Website, our Mobile Apps (“App/Mobile App/Application”), or any products or services including Audio, Video, eBooks, Images and Textual Content through a Computer, Mobile App, Online Streaming, SD cards, tablets or other storage/transmitting devices (“Product(s)/Service(s)/Products & Services”). These Terms constitute an electronic record in accordance with the provisions of the Information Technology Act, 2000 and the Information Technology (Intermediaries guidelines) Rules, 2011 thereunder and further rules there under as applicable and amended provisions pertaining to electronic records in various statutes as amended time to time. As a user of our Products & Services, you must agree to have read the terms mentioned henceforth. Privacy Any personal information submitted in connection with your use of the products or the site is subject to our Privacy Policy, located at Privacy Policy. General Our products enable the users to learn recorded instruction, tutoring, and learning services through our proprietary software, mobile applications and website. The services include, without limitation, facilitating and hosting & selling courses in video and text formats, hosting and selling eBooks and taking feedback from users. The company holds the right to modify or upgrade its products at any time. If you are at any time dissatisfied with our products, then your sole remedy is to discontinue the use of the products. As a registered user of the website, you agree that we may notify you through email regarding security, privacy, and administrative issues relating to your use of our products. If you publish a course on our platform, you must agree to the terms mentioned under Instructor Obligations. The company reserves the absolute right to revise these terms in its sole discretion at any time and without prior notice to you other than by posting the revised terms on the site. Any revisions to the terms are effective upon posting. The terms will be identified as of the most recent date of revision. You should visit this page regularly to ensure your continued acceptance of these terms. Your continued use of the company products after any revision to these terms constitutes your binding acceptance of the revised terms. Notwithstanding the preceding sentences of this section, no revisions to these terms will apply to any dispute between you and the company that arose prior to the date of such revision. Registration There is compulsion to register on our platform and you learn/purchase courses/eBooks without Registration Conduct You agree to use our products and services for lawful purposes only. You are solely responsible for the knowledge of and adherence to all laws, rules, and regulations pertaining to your use of the products. You agree not to use our content or products to recruit, solicit, or contact in any form instructors or potential users for employment or contracting for a business not affiliated with us without our advance written permission, which may be withheld in our sole discretion. You assume all risks from any meetings or contact between you and any instructors or other users of the products. User Obligations You have read, understood, and agree to be bound by the pricing information before using the site or registering for a course. You are not allowed to translate, republish, or print the content of this website without a written permission from the company. You will not use this website to upload any video of text course, tutorial, diagrams, graphics, logos, trademarks, or any other copyrighted contents belonging to any third party. You will not use contents or a portion of contents of this website for any unethical, unlawful purpose, to promote segregation depending upon gender, age, race, religion, nationality or disability of a person, to defame a person or to violate a person’s right to privacy. You will not upload, post or otherwise transmit any unsolicited advertising, promotional materials, junk mail, spam, or any other form of solicitation through the site. You will not post any inappropriate, offensive, racist, hateful, sexist, pornographic, false, misleading, infringing, defamatory or libelous content. You will not disclose any personal information to an instructor, and you will not solicit personal information from any instructor. You agree to pay the fees for courses that you purchase, and you authorize us to charge your debit or credit card or process other means of payment (such as Boleto, SEPA, direct debit, Paypal, CCAvenue or mobile wallet) for those fees. When you make a purchase, you agree not to use an invalid or unauthorized payment method. If your payment method fails and you still get access to the course you are enrolling in, you agree to pay us the corresponding fees within thirty (30) days of notification from us. We reserve the right to disable access to any course for which we have not received adequate payments. If you are under the age of 18, you have obtained parental or legal guardian consent before using the site or registering for a course. Refunds and Credits Guru99 will not be able to refund/replace the downloaded eBooks due to the electronic nature of the content, though we can re-issue the same eBook in case you receive it in damaged condition. Delivery and Shipping eBooks will be delivered to your via email. Third-Party Advertisements We use third-party advertising companies to serve ads when you visit our Web site. These companies may use aggregated information (not including your name, address, email address or telephone number) about your visits to this and other Web sites in order to provide advertisements about goods and services of interest to you. We do not guarantee correctness, viability, validity and availability of information displayed on our website in the form of advertisements. We do not guarantee merchantability or fitness of the advertised information for any particular purpose. We declare the advertisers and their clients or allied partners are neither our agents, nor partners. We do not provide guarantee for any published information on behalf of any of the advertisers and their clients or allied partners. If you would like more information about this practice and to know your choices about not having this information used by these companies, please see: http://www.networkadvertising.org/managing/opt_out.asp Liabilities We are not liable to any user for: Any loss or damages of any kind, as a result of using our products and services or other information provided on the website. Special, direct, incidental, punitive, exemplary or consequential damages of any kind whatsoever in any way due, as a result of using or inability for using the website or its contents. Any third party websites or contents therein directly or indirectly accessed through links in the Site, including but not limited to any errors in or omissions. The unavailability of our website continuously or for any period of time. Indemnification As a user of this website, you agree to protect and fully compensate us and our associates, namely, service providers and technology partners, from any and all third party claims, liabilities, damages, expenses and costs, including, but not limited to, all legal expenses, arising from your misuse of our services. Copyright and Trademarks The web pages, tutorials, code snippets, graphics, diagrams, artwork and study material (referred to as “contents”) are the copyrighted property of Guru99 Tech Pvt Ltd unless you have uploaded/hosted it yourself. It is strictly prohibited to retain, reuse, reproduce or publish the contents or a portion of contents in any format, without our written consent. We use various third party logos or trademarks in our products like Tutorials Library, and Coding Ground and other hosted courses. These logos and trademarks have been taken from various technology inventors GNU, Oracle, Microsoft, SAP, IBM, Google etc. We strongly state that such logos and trademarks have no relation with Guru99 and they are property of their respective owners and they hold their copyrights. Claims of Infringement If you find your work has been duplicated in any hosted course, text tutorials, shared tutorials, white papers or any other part of the website and you believe it constitutes copyright infringement, or your intellectual property rights are violated, please bring it to our notice us to claim for copyright or other intellectual property infringement. Kindly fill a notifying form at Contact Us Form. You can claim for the infringement by producing valid and correct proofs of your work. Warranty Disclaimer You understand that while using the resources of this website or participating in a course, you may be exposed to content from a variety of sources, and that we are not to be held responsible for the accuracy, quality, legality, or usefulness of such content. We strive continuously to provide as precisely and as timely contents as possible, however, we do not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, correctness, timeliness, validity, nonobsolescence, non-infringement, non-omission, merchantability or fitness of the contents of this website for any particular purpose. You further acknowledge that while using our services, you may be exposed to products, content or materials that are inaccurate, offensive, indecent, or objectionable, and you agree to indemnify us against any legal or equitable rights or remedies you may have against the company with respect thereto. To the fullest extent permissible pursuant to applicable law, company and its affiliates, partners, licensors, and suppliers hereby disclaim all express, implied, and statutory warranties of any kind, including, but not limited to, the implied warranties of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, and non-infringement. No information, oral or written, obtained by you from company, an employee or representative of company or through the services will create any warranty not expressly stated herein. We do not warrant that our services or any part thereof including any content or products offered through our services will be uninterrupted, or free of errors, viruses or other harmful components and do not warrant that any of the foregoing will be corrected. You understand and agree that you use, access, download, or otherwise obtain information, materials, or data through the company products, any associated sites or applications, and any third party sites at your own discretion and that you will be solely responsible for any damage to your computer system used in connection with the company products or loss of data that results from the download or use of such material or data. We are not responsible, if the information contained in a material is altered, removed or deleted, after its complete or partial downloading by the user. Any material downloaded or referred shall be at the risk of the user. Modification of Services We may modify the features, pricing, and other aspects of our products and services at our discretion and these terms will continue to apply for the modified products and services. You further understand that we reserve the right to modify or discontinue, temporarily or permanently, our products and services (or any part thereof) with or without notice. You agree that we will not be liable to you or to any third party for any such modification including suspension or discontinuance of all or any portion of our products or services. Legal Jurisdiction The laws of the Republic of India shall govern any dispute arising from the use of this website, its products, and services; and the courts in Ahmedabad, India, alone shall have exclusive jurisdiction to deal with such matters. Updating These Terms From time to time, we may update these Terms to clarify our practices or to reflect new or different practices (such as when we add new features), and Guru99 reserves the right in its sole discretion to modify and/or make changes to these Terms at any time. Your continued use of our Services after changes become effective shall mean that you accept those changes. Any revised Terms shall supersede all previous Terms. Last updated on 29-Aug-2021 Top Tutorials About About Us Advertise with Us Write For Us Contact Us Python Testing Hacking Career Suggestion SAP Career Suggestion Tool Software Testing as a Career Interesting eBook Blog Quiz SAP eBook SAP Java SQL Execute online Execute Java Online Execute Javascript Execute HTML Execute Python Selenium Cryptocurrency VPNs © Copyright - Guru99 2022 Privacy Policy | Affiliate Disclaimer | ToS Scroll to top Home TestingExpand child menu Expand Agile Testing JUnit Quality Center(ALM) Bugzilla HP Loadrunner RPA Cucumber Software Testing SAP Testing Database Testing Mobile Testing Selenium ETL Testing Mantis SoapUI JMeter Postman TEST Management JIRA QTP TestLink SAPExpand child menu Expand ABAP CRM PI/PO APO Crystal Reports PP Beginners FICO SD Basis HANA SAPUI5 BODS HR Security Tutorial BI/BW MM Solution Manager BPC QM Successfactors CO Payroll SAP Tutorial WebExpand child menu Expand Apache Java PHP SQL Server AngularJS JSP PL/SQL UML ASP.NET Kotlin PostgreSQL VB.NET C Linux Python VBScript C# MariaDB ReactJS Web Services C++ MS Access Ruby & Rails WPF CodeIgniter MySQL Scala SQLite DBMS Node.js SQL Perl JavaScript Must LearnExpand child menu Expand Accounting Embedded Systems Operating System Algorithms Ethical Hacking PMP Android Excel Tutorial Photoshop Blockchain Go Programming Project Management Business Analyst IoT Reviews Build Website ITIL Salesforce Cloud Computing Jenkins SEO COBOL MIS Software Engineering Compiler Design Movie VBA Courses Networking VPN Big DataExpand child menu Expand AWS Hive Power BI Big Data Informatica Qlikview Cassandra MicroStrategy Tableau Cognos MongoDB Talend Data Warehousing NiFi ZooKeeper DevOps OBIEE Pentaho HBase Live ProjectExpand child menu Expand Live Agile Testing Live Selenium Project Live HP ALM Live Selenium 2 Live Java Project Live Security Testing Live Mobile Testing Live Testing Project Live Payment Gateway Live Testing 2 Live PHP Project Live Telecom Live Projects Hub Live UFT/QTP Testing Live Python Project Live SEO Project AIExpand child menu Expand Artificial Intelligence PyTorch Data Science R Programming Keras TensorFlow NLTK Blog Toggle Menu Close Search for: Searchhttps://www.guru99.com/terms-of-service Terms of Use Skip to content Home Testing Expand Agile Testing JUnit Quality Center(ALM) Bugzilla HP Loadrunner RPA Cucumber Software Testing SAP Testing Database Testing Mobile Testing Selenium ETL Testing Mantis SoapUI JMeter Postman TEST Management JIRA QTP TestLink SAP Expand ABAP CRM PI/PO APO Crystal Reports PP Beginners FICO SD Basis HANA SAPUI5 BODS HR Security Tutorial BI/BW MM Solution Manager BPC QM Successfactors CO Payroll SAP Tutorial Web Expand Apache Java PHP SQL Server AngularJS JSP PL/SQL UML ASP.NET Kotlin PostgreSQL VB.NET C Linux Python VBScript C# MariaDB ReactJS Web Services C++ MS Access Ruby & Rails WPF CodeIgniter MySQL Scala SQLite DBMS Node.js SQL Perl JavaScript Must Learn Expand Accounting Embedded Systems Operating System Algorithms Ethical Hacking PMP Android Excel Tutorial Photoshop Blockchain Go Programming Project Management Business Analyst IoT Reviews Build Website ITIL Salesforce Cloud Computing Jenkins SEO COBOL MIS Software Engineering Compiler Design Movie VBA Courses Networking VPN Big Data Expand AWS Hive Power BI Big Data Informatica Qlikview Cassandra MicroStrategy Tableau Cognos MongoDB Talend Data Warehousing NiFi ZooKeeper DevOps OBIEE Pentaho HBase Live Project Expand Live Agile Testing Live Selenium Project Live HP ALM Live Selenium 2 Live Java Project Live Security Testing Live Mobile Testing Live Testing Project Live Payment Gateway Live Testing 2 Live PHP Project Live Telecom Live Projects Hub Live UFT/QTP Testing Live Python Project Live SEO Project AI Expand Artificial Intelligence PyTorch Data Science R Programming Keras TensorFlow NLTK Blog Search Toggle Menu Terms of Use The following terms of use will govern the use of this website guru99.com and all its sub-sites and micro-sites. The domain name www.guru99.com (hereinafter referred to as “Website”) and its Mobile Apps are owned by Guru99 Tech Pvt Ltd bearing CIN No. (U72900GJ2013PTC074450), a company incorporated under the Companies Act, 2013 with its registered office situated at Ahmedabad City – 3800015, Gujarat, India. (hereinafter referred to as “Guru99” or Company). Guru99 is a leading Edu-tech Company that provides online courses in the form of text and videos though our Website and Mobile Application. Extent of the Terms of Use These Terms & Conditions (“Terms”) are set between Guru99 Tech Pvt Ltd (“Company/We/Us/Our”) and its users (“User/You/Your/Students/Instructors/Publishers”) and will govern the use of the Website, our Mobile Apps (“App/Mobile App/Application”), or any products or services including Audio, Video, eBooks, Images and Textual Content through a Computer, Mobile App, Online Streaming, SD cards, tablets or other storage/transmitting devices (“Product(s)/Service(s)/Products & Services”). These Terms constitute an electronic record in accordance with the provisions of the Information Technology Act, 2000 and the Information Technology (Intermediaries guidelines) Rules, 2011 thereunder and further rules there under as applicable and amended provisions pertaining to electronic records in various statutes as amended time to time. As a user of our Products & Services, you must agree to have read the terms mentioned henceforth. Privacy Any personal information submitted in connection with your use of the products or the site is subject to our Privacy Policy, located at Privacy Policy. General Our products enable the users to learn recorded instruction, tutoring, and learning services through our proprietary software, mobile applications and website. The services include, without limitation, facilitating and hosting & selling courses in video and text formats, hosting and selling eBooks and taking feedback from users. The company holds the right to modify or upgrade its products at any time. If you are at any time dissatisfied with our products, then your sole remedy is to discontinue the use of the products. As a registered user of the website, you agree that we may notify you through email regarding security, privacy, and administrative issues relating to your use of our products. If you publish a course on our platform, you must agree to the terms mentioned under Instructor Obligations. The company reserves the absolute right to revise these terms in its sole discretion at any time and without prior notice to you other than by posting the revised terms on the site. Any revisions to the terms are effective upon posting. The terms will be identified as of the most recent date of revision. You should visit this page regularly to ensure your continued acceptance of these terms. Your continued use of the company products after any revision to these terms constitutes your binding acceptance of the revised terms. Notwithstanding the preceding sentences of this section, no revisions to these terms will apply to any dispute between you and the company that arose prior to the date of such revision. Registration There is compulsion to register on our platform and you learn/purchase courses/eBooks without Registration Conduct You agree to use our products and services for lawful purposes only. You are solely responsible for the knowledge of and adherence to all laws, rules, and regulations pertaining to your use of the products. You agree not to use our content or products to recruit, solicit, or contact in any form instructors or potential users for employment or contracting for a business not affiliated with us without our advance written permission, which may be withheld in our sole discretion. You assume all risks from any meetings or contact between you and any instructors or other users of the products. User Obligations You have read, understood, and agree to be bound by the pricing information before using the site or registering for a course. You are not allowed to translate, republish, or print the content of this website without a written permission from the company. You will not use this website to upload any video of text course, tutorial, diagrams, graphics, logos, trademarks, or any other copyrighted contents belonging to any third party. You will not use contents or a portion of contents of this website for any unethical, unlawful purpose, to promote segregation depending upon gender, age, race, religion, nationality or disability of a person, to defame a person or to violate a person’s right to privacy. You will not upload, post or otherwise transmit any unsolicited advertising, promotional materials, junk mail, spam, or any other form of solicitation through the site. You will not post any inappropriate, offensive, racist, hateful, sexist, pornographic, false, misleading, infringing, defamatory or libelous content. You will not disclose any personal information to an instructor, and you will not solicit personal information from any instructor. You agree to pay the fees for courses that you purchase, and you authorize us to charge your debit or credit card or process other means of payment (such as Boleto, SEPA, direct debit, Paypal, CCAvenue or mobile wallet) for those fees. When you make a purchase, you agree not to use an invalid or unauthorized payment method. If your payment method fails and you still get access to the course you are enrolling in, you agree to pay us the corresponding fees within thirty (30) days of notification from us. We reserve the right to disable access to any course for which we have not received adequate payments. If you are under the age of 18, you have obtained parental or legal guardian consent before using the site or registering for a course. Refunds and Credits Guru99 will not be able to refund/replace the downloaded eBooks due to the electronic nature of the content, though we can re-issue the same eBook in case you receive it in damaged condition. Delivery and Shipping eBooks will be delivered to your via email. Third-Party Advertisements We use third-party advertising companies to serve ads when you visit our Web site. These companies may use aggregated information (not including your name, address, email address or telephone number) about your visits to this and other Web sites in order to provide advertisements about goods and services of interest to you. We do not guarantee correctness, viability, validity and availability of information displayed on our website in the form of advertisements. We do not guarantee merchantability or fitness of the advertised information for any particular purpose. We declare the advertisers and their clients or allied partners are neither our agents, nor partners. We do not provide guarantee for any published information on behalf of any of the advertisers and their clients or allied partners. If you would like more information about this practice and to know your choices about not having this information used by these companies, please see: http://www.networkadvertising.org/managing/opt_out.asp Liabilities We are not liable to any user for: Any loss or damages of any kind, as a result of using our products and services or other information provided on the website. Special, direct, incidental, punitive, exemplary or consequential damages of any kind whatsoever in any way due, as a result of using or inability for using the website or its contents. Any third party websites or contents therein directly or indirectly accessed through links in the Site, including but not limited to any errors in or omissions. The unavailability of our website continuously or for any period of time. Indemnification As a user of this website, you agree to protect and fully compensate us and our associates, namely, service providers and technology partners, from any and all third party claims, liabilities, damages, expenses and costs, including, but not limited to, all legal expenses, arising from your misuse of our services. Copyright and Trademarks The web pages, tutorials, code snippets, graphics, diagrams, artwork and study material (referred to as “contents”) are the copyrighted property of Guru99 Tech Pvt Ltd unless you have uploaded/hosted it yourself. It is strictly prohibited to retain, reuse, reproduce or publish the contents or a portion of contents in any format, without our written consent. We use various third party logos or trademarks in our products like Tutorials Library, and Coding Ground and other hosted courses. These logos and trademarks have been taken from various technology inventors GNU, Oracle, Microsoft, SAP, IBM, Google etc. We strongly state that such logos and trademarks have no relation with Guru99 and they are property of their respective owners and they hold their copyrights. Claims of Infringement If you find your work has been duplicated in any hosted course, text tutorials, shared tutorials, white papers or any other part of the website and you believe it constitutes copyright infringement, or your intellectual property rights are violated, please bring it to our notice us to claim for copyright or other intellectual property infringement. Kindly fill a notifying form at Contact Us Form. You can claim for the infringement by producing valid and correct proofs of your work. Warranty Disclaimer You understand that while using the resources of this website or participating in a course, you may be exposed to content from a variety of sources, and that we are not to be held responsible for the accuracy, quality, legality, or usefulness of such content. We strive continuously to provide as precisely and as timely contents as possible, however, we do not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, correctness, timeliness, validity, nonobsolescence, non-infringement, non-omission, merchantability or fitness of the contents of this website for any particular purpose. You further acknowledge that while using our services, you may be exposed to products, content or materials that are inaccurate, offensive, indecent, or objectionable, and you agree to indemnify us against any legal or equitable rights or remedies you may have against the company with respect thereto. To the fullest extent permissible pursuant to applicable law, company and its affiliates, partners, licensors, and suppliers hereby disclaim all express, implied, and statutory warranties of any kind, including, but not limited to, the implied warranties of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, and non-infringement. No information, oral or written, obtained by you from company, an employee or representative of company or through the services will create any warranty not expressly stated herein. We do not warrant that our services or any part thereof including any content or products offered through our services will be uninterrupted, or free of errors, viruses or other harmful components and do not warrant that any of the foregoing will be corrected. You understand and agree that you use, access, download, or otherwise obtain information, materials, or data through the company products, any associated sites or applications, and any third party sites at your own discretion and that you will be solely responsible for any damage to your computer system used in connection with the company products or loss of data that results from the download or use of such material or data. We are not responsible, if the information contained in a material is altered, removed or deleted, after its complete or partial downloading by the user. Any material downloaded or referred shall be at the risk of the user. Modification of Services We may modify the features, pricing, and other aspects of our products and services at our discretion and these terms will continue to apply for the modified products and services. You further understand that we reserve the right to modify or discontinue, temporarily or permanently, our products and services (or any part thereof) with or without notice. You agree that we will not be liable to you or to any third party for any such modification including suspension or discontinuance of all or any portion of our products or services. Legal Jurisdiction The laws of the Republic of India shall govern any dispute arising from the use of this website, its products, and services; and the courts in Ahmedabad, India, alone shall have exclusive jurisdiction to deal with such matters. Updating These Terms From time to time, we may update these Terms to clarify our practices or to reflect new or different practices (such as when we add new features), and Guru99 reserves the right in its sole discretion to modify and/or make changes to these Terms at any time. Your continued use of our Services after changes become effective shall mean that you accept those changes. Any revised Terms shall supersede all previous Terms. Last updated on 29-Aug-2021 Top Tutorials About About Us Advertise with Us Write For Us Contact Us Python Testing Hacking Career Suggestion SAP Career Suggestion Tool Software Testing as a Career Interesting eBook Blog Quiz SAP eBook SAP Java SQL Execute online Execute Java Online Execute Javascript Execute HTML Execute Python Selenium Cryptocurrency VPNs © Copyright - Guru99 2022 Privacy Policy | Affiliate Disclaimer | ToS Scroll to top Home TestingExpand child menu Expand Agile Testing JUnit Quality Center(ALM) Bugzilla HP Loadrunner RPA Cucumber Software Testing SAP Testing Database Testing Mobile Testing Selenium ETL Testing Mantis SoapUI JMeter Postman TEST Management JIRA QTP TestLink SAPExpand child menu Expand ABAP CRM PI/PO APO Crystal Reports PP Beginners FICO SD Basis HANA SAPUI5 BODS HR Security Tutorial BI/BW MM Solution Manager BPC QM Successfactors CO Payroll SAP Tutorial WebExpand child menu Expand Apache Java PHP SQL Server AngularJS JSP PL/SQL UML ASP.NET Kotlin PostgreSQL VB.NET C Linux Python VBScript C# MariaDB ReactJS Web Services C++ MS Access Ruby & Rails WPF CodeIgniter MySQL Scala SQLite DBMS Node.js SQL Perl JavaScript Must LearnExpand child menu Expand Accounting Embedded Systems Operating System Algorithms Ethical Hacking PMP Android Excel Tutorial Photoshop Blockchain Go Programming Project Management Business Analyst IoT Reviews Build Website ITIL Salesforce Cloud Computing Jenkins SEO COBOL MIS Software Engineering Compiler Design Movie VBA Courses Networking VPN Big DataExpand child menu Expand AWS Hive Power BI Big Data Informatica Qlikview Cassandra MicroStrategy Tableau Cognos MongoDB Talend Data Warehousing NiFi ZooKeeper DevOps OBIEE Pentaho HBase Live ProjectExpand child menu Expand Live Agile Testing Live Selenium Project Live HP ALM Live Selenium 2 Live Java Project Live Security Testing Live Mobile Testing Live Testing Project Live Payment Gateway Live Testing 2 Live PHP Project Live Telecom Live Projects Hub Live UFT/QTP Testing Live Python Project Live SEO Project AIExpand child menu Expand Artificial Intelligence PyTorch Data Science R Programming Keras TensorFlow NLTK Blog Toggle Menu Close Search for: Search