https://www.guru99.com/data-science-tutorial.html What is Data Science? Introduction, Basic Concepts & Process Skip to content Home Testing Expand Agile Testing JUnit Quality Center(ALM) Bugzilla HP Loadrunner RPA Cucumber Software Testing SAP Testing Database Testing Mobile Testing Selenium ETL Testing Mantis SoapUI JMeter Postman TEST Management JIRA QTP TestLink SAP Expand ABAP CRM PI/PO APO Crystal Reports PP Beginners FICO SD Basis HANA SAPUI5 BODS HR Security Tutorial BI/BW MM Solution Manager BPC QM Successfactors CO Payroll SAP Tutorial Web Expand Apache Java PHP SQL Server AngularJS JSP PL/SQL UML ASP.NET Kotlin PostgreSQL VB.NET C Linux Python VBScript C# MariaDB ReactJS Web Services C++ MS Access Ruby & Rails WPF CodeIgniter MySQL Scala SQLite DBMS Node.js SQL Perl JavaScript Must Learn Expand Accounting Embedded Systems Operating System Algorithms Ethical Hacking PMP Android Excel Tutorial Photoshop Blockchain Go Programming Project Management Business Analyst IoT Reviews Build Website ITIL Salesforce Cloud Computing Jenkins SEO COBOL MIS Software Engineering Compiler Design Movie VBA Courses Networking VPN Big Data Expand AWS Hive Power BI Big Data Informatica Qlikview Cassandra MicroStrategy Tableau Cognos MongoDB Talend Data Warehousing NiFi ZooKeeper DevOps OBIEE Pentaho HBase Live Project Expand Live Agile Testing Live Selenium Project Live HP ALM Live Selenium 2 Live Java Project Live Security Testing Live Mobile Testing Live Testing Project Live Payment Gateway Live Testing 2 Live PHP Project Live Telecom Live Projects Hub Live UFT/QTP Testing Live Python Project Live SEO Project AI Expand Artificial Intelligence PyTorch Data Science R Programming Keras TensorFlow NLTK Blog Search Toggle Menu What is Data Science? Introduction, Basic Concepts & Process ByDaniel Johnson Hours UpdatedJuly 16, 2022 What is Data Science? Data Science is the area of study which involves extracting insights from vast amounts of data using various scientific methods, algorithms, and processes. It helps you to discover hidden patterns from the raw data. The term Data Science has emerged because of the evolution of mathematical statistics, data analysis, and big data. Data Science is an interdisciplinary field that allows you to extract knowledge from structured or unstructured data. Data science enables you to translate a business problem into a research project and then translate it back into a practical solution. In this Data Science Tutorial for Beginners, you will learn Data Science basics: What is Data Science? Why Data Science? Data Science Components Data Science Process Data Science Jobs Roles Tools for DataScience Difference Between Data Science with BI (Business Intelligence) Applications of Data Science Challenges of Data Science Technology Why Data Science? Here are significant advantages of using Data Analytics Technology: Data is the oil for today’s world. With the right tools, technologies, algorithms, we can use data and convert it into a distinct business advantage Data Science can help you to detect fraud using advanced machine learning algorithms It helps you to prevent any significant monetary losses Allows to build intelligence ability in machines You can perform sentiment analysis to gauge customer brand loyalty It enables you to take better and faster decisions It helps you to recommend the right product to the right customer to enhance your business Evolution of DataSciences Data Science Components Statistics: Statistics is the most critical unit of Data Science basics, and it is the method or science of collecting and analyzing numerical data in large quantities to get useful insights. Visualization: Visualization technique helps you access huge amounts of data in easy to understand and digestible visuals. Machine Learning: Machine Learning explores the building and study of algorithms that learn to make predictions about unforeseen/future data. Deep Learning: Deep Learning method is new machine learning research where the algorithm selects the analysis model to follow. Data Science Process Now in this Data Science Tutorial, we will learn the Data Science Process: 1. Discovery: Discovery step involves acquiring data from all the identified internal & external sources, which helps you answer the business question. The data can be: Logs from webservers Data gathered from social media Census datasets Data streamed from online sources using APIs 2. Preparation: Data can have many inconsistencies like missing values, blank columns, an incorrect data format, which needs to be cleaned. You need to process, explore, and condition data before modelling. The cleaner your data, the better are your predictions. 3. Model Planning: In this stage, you need to determine the method and technique to draw the relation between input variables. Planning for a model is performed by using different statistical formulas and visualization tools. SQL analysis services, R, and SAS/access are some of the tools used for this purpose. 4. Model Building: In this step, the actual model building process starts. Here, Data scientist distributes datasets for training and testing. Techniques like association, classification, and clustering are applied to the training data set. The model, once prepared, is tested against the “testing” dataset. 5. Operationalize: You deliver the final baselined model with reports, code, and technical documents in this stage. Model is deployed into a real-time production environment after thorough testing. 6. Communicate Results In this stage, the key findings are communicated to all stakeholders. This helps you decide if the project results are a success or a failure based on the inputs from the model. Data Science Jobs Roles Most prominent Data Scientist job titles are: Data Scientist Data Engineer Data Analyst Statistician Data Architect Data Admin Business Analyst Data/Analytics Manager Let’s learn what each role entails in detail: Data Scientist: Role: A Data Scientist is a professional who manages enormous amounts of data to come up with compelling business visions by using various tools, techniques, methodologies, algorithms, etc. Languages: R, SAS, Python, SQL, Hive, Matlab, Pig, Spark Data Engineer: Role: The role of a data engineer is of working with large amounts of data. He develops, constructs, tests, and maintains architectures like large scale processing systems and databases. Languages: SQL, Hive, R, SAS, Matlab, Python, Java, Ruby, C + +, and Perl Data Analyst: Role: A data analyst is responsible for mining vast amounts of data. They will look for relationships, patterns, trends in data. Later he or she will deliver compelling reporting and visualization for analyzing the data to take the most viable business decisions. Languages: R, Python, HTML, JS, C, C+ + , SQL Statistician: Role: The statistician collects, analyses, and understands qualitative and quantitative data using statistical theories and methods. Languages: SQL, R, Matlab, Tableau, Python, Perl, Spark, and Hive Data Administrator: Role: Data admin should ensure that the database is accessible to all relevant users. He also ensures that it is performing correctly and keeps it safe from hacking. Languages: Ruby on Rails, SQL, Java, C#, and Python Business Analyst: Role: This professional needs to improve business processes. He/she is an intermediary between the business executive team and the IT department. Languages: SQL, Tableau, Power BI and, Python Also, read Data Science Interview Questions and Answers: Click Here Tools for Data Science Data Analysis Data Warehousing Data Visualization Machine Learning R, Spark, Python and SAS Hadoop, SQL, Hive R, Tableau, Raw Spark, Azure ML studio, Mahout Difference Between Data Science with BI (Business Intelligence) Parameters Business Intelligence Data Science Perception Looking Backward Looking Forward Data Sources Structured Data. Mostly SQL, but some time Data Warehouse) Structured and Unstructured data. Like logs, SQL, NoSQL, or text Approach Statistics & Visualization Statistics, Machine Learning, and Graph Emphasis Past & Present Analysis & Neuro-linguistic Programming Tools Pentaho. Microsoft Bl, QlikView, R, TensorFlow Also, read the difference between Data Science vs Machine: Click Here Applications of Data Science Some application of Data Science are: Internet Search: Google search uses Data science technology to search for a specific result within a fraction of a second Recommendation Systems: To create a recommendation system. For example, “suggested friends” on Facebook or suggested videos” on YouTube, everything is done with the help of Data Science. Image & Speech Recognition: Speech recognizes systems like Siri, Google Assistant, and Alexa run on the Data science technique. Moreover, Facebook recognizes your friend when you upload a photo with them, with the help of Data Science. Gaming world: EA Sports, Sony, Nintendo are using Data science technology. This enhances your gaming experience. Games are now developed using Machine Learning techniques, and they can update themselves when you move to higher levels. Online Price Comparison: PriceRunner, Junglee, Shopzilla work on the Data science mechanism. Here, data is fetched from the relevant websites using APIs. Challenges of Data Science Technology A high variety of information & data is required for accurate analysis Not adequate data science talent pool available Management does not provide financial support for a data science team Unavailability of/difficult access to data Business decision-makers do not effectively use data Science results Explaining data science to others is difficult Privacy issues Lack of significant domain expert If an organization is very small, it can’t have a Data Science team Summary Data Science is the area of study that involves extracting insights from vast amounts of data by using various scientific methods, algorithms, and processes. Statistics, Visualization, Deep Learning, Machine Learning are important Data Science concepts. Data Science Process goes through Discovery, Data Preparation, Model Planning, Model Building, Operationalize, Communicate Results. Important Data Scientist job roles are: 1) Data Scientist 2) Data Engineer 3) Data Analyst 4) Statistician 5) Data Architect 6) Data Admin 7) Business Analyst 8) Data/Analytics Manager. R, SQL, Python, SaS are essential Data science tools. The predictions of Business Intelligence is looking backwards, while for Data Science, it is looking forward. Important applications of Data science are 1) Internet Search 2) Recommendation Systems 3) Image & Speech Recognition 4) Gaming world 5) Online Price Comparison. The high variety of information & data is the biggest challenge of Data science technology. You Might Like: 40+ BEST Data Science & Data Analysis Courses Online (2022) SAS Tutorial for Beginners: What is & Programming Example 55+ Best FREE Online Statistics Courses with Certificate in 2022 What is Data Analysis? Research, Types & Example 17 BEST Data Science Books (2022 Update) Post navigation Report a Bug Previous Prev Next Continue Top Tutorials About About Us Advertise with Us Write For Us Contact Us Python Testing Hacking Career Suggestion SAP Career Suggestion Tool Software Testing as a Career Interesting eBook Blog Quiz SAP eBook SAP Java SQL Execute online Execute Java Online Execute Javascript Execute HTML Execute Python Selenium Cryptocurrency VPNs © Copyright - Guru99 2022 Privacy Policy | Affiliate Disclaimer | ToS Scroll to top Home TestingExpand child menu Expand Agile Testing JUnit Quality Center(ALM) Bugzilla HP Loadrunner RPA Cucumber Software Testing SAP Testing Database Testing Mobile Testing Selenium ETL Testing Mantis SoapUI JMeter Postman TEST Management JIRA QTP TestLink SAPExpand child menu Expand ABAP CRM PI/PO APO Crystal Reports PP Beginners FICO SD Basis HANA SAPUI5 BODS HR Security Tutorial BI/BW MM Solution Manager BPC QM Successfactors CO Payroll SAP Tutorial WebExpand child menu Expand Apache Java PHP SQL Server AngularJS JSP PL/SQL UML ASP.NET Kotlin PostgreSQL VB.NET C Linux Python VBScript C# MariaDB ReactJS Web Services C++ MS Access Ruby & Rails WPF CodeIgniter MySQL Scala SQLite DBMS Node.js SQL Perl JavaScript Must LearnExpand child menu Expand Accounting Embedded Systems Operating System Algorithms Ethical Hacking PMP Android Excel Tutorial Photoshop Blockchain Go Programming Project Management Business Analyst IoT Reviews Build Website ITIL Salesforce Cloud Computing Jenkins SEO COBOL MIS Software Engineering Compiler Design Movie VBA Courses Networking VPN Big DataExpand child menu Expand AWS Hive Power BI Big Data Informatica Qlikview Cassandra MicroStrategy Tableau Cognos MongoDB Talend Data Warehousing NiFi ZooKeeper DevOps OBIEE Pentaho HBase Live ProjectExpand child menu Expand Live Agile Testing Live Selenium Project Live HP ALM Live Selenium 2 Live Java Project Live Security Testing Live Mobile Testing Live Testing Project Live Payment Gateway Live Testing 2 Live PHP Project Live Telecom Live Projects Hub Live UFT/QTP Testing Live Python Project Live SEO Project AIExpand child menu Expand Artificial Intelligence PyTorch Data Science R Programming Keras TensorFlow NLTK Blog Toggle Menu Close Search for: Search