https://www.guru99.com/itil-framework-process.html What is ITIL? ITIL Process and ITIL Framework Tutorial Skip to content Home Testing Expand Agile Testing JUnit Quality Center(ALM) Bugzilla HP Loadrunner RPA Cucumber Software Testing SAP Testing Database Testing Mobile Testing Selenium ETL Testing Mantis SoapUI JMeter Postman TEST Management JIRA QTP TestLink SAP Expand ABAP CRM PI/PO APO Crystal Reports PP Beginners FICO SD Basis HANA SAPUI5 BODS HR Security Tutorial BI/BW MM Solution Manager BPC QM Successfactors CO Payroll SAP Tutorial Web Expand Apache Java PHP SQL Server AngularJS JSP PL/SQL UML ASP.NET Kotlin PostgreSQL VB.NET C Linux Python VBScript C# MariaDB ReactJS Web Services C++ MS Access Ruby & Rails WPF CodeIgniter MySQL Scala SQLite DBMS Node.js SQL Perl JavaScript Must Learn Expand Accounting Embedded Systems Operating System Algorithms Ethical Hacking PMP Android Excel Tutorial Photoshop Blockchain Go Programming Project Management Business Analyst IoT Reviews Build Website ITIL Salesforce Cloud Computing Jenkins SEO COBOL MIS Software Engineering Compiler Design Movie VBA Courses Networking VPN Big Data Expand AWS Hive Power BI Big Data Informatica Qlikview Cassandra MicroStrategy Tableau Cognos MongoDB Talend Data Warehousing NiFi ZooKeeper DevOps OBIEE Pentaho HBase Live Project Expand Live Agile Testing Live Selenium Project Live HP ALM Live Selenium 2 Live Java Project Live Security Testing Live Mobile Testing Live Testing Project Live Payment Gateway Live Testing 2 Live PHP Project Live Telecom Live Projects Hub Live UFT/QTP Testing Live Python Project Live SEO Project AI Expand Artificial Intelligence PyTorch Data Science R Programming Keras TensorFlow NLTK Blog Search Toggle Menu What is ITIL? ITIL Process and ITIL Framework Tutorial ByLawrence Williams Hours UpdatedJune 6, 2022 What is ITIL? ITIL is a set of well-defined guidelines that helps Software professionals to deliver the best IT services. ITIL guidelines are the best practices that are observed, gathered, and put together over time for delivering quality IT services. The full form of ITIL is Information Technology Infrastructure Library. Popular IT services covered by ITIL are Cloud services, backup, network security, Data processing and storage, managed print services, IT consulting, Help desk support, IOT etc. The systematic and structured approach of ITIL framework helps an organization in managing risk, establishing cost-effective practices, strengthening customer relations. All these eventually result in building a stable IT environment for your business. In this ITIL tutorial, you will learn: What is ITIL? Why ITIL is required? History of ITIL Important Terminologies and Definitions used in ITIL Features of ITIL What ITIL is not? ITIL Process Service Strategy: Service Design: Service Transitions: Service Operations Continual Service Improvement: ITIL v2. Vs. ITIL v3 Advantages of ITIL Application of ITIL Top ITIL Interview Questions and Answers Why ITIL is required? Here are some important reasons for using the ITIL method in business. Improving project delivery success. Managing constant business and IT change. Offering maximum value to customers. Enhancing resources and capabilities. Provide services that are useful and reliable. Planning processes with specific goals in mind. Clearly defines roles for each task. Deliver value for customers through services Integrate business and service strategies. Monitor, measure and optimize service provider performance. It helps to control IT investment and budget. Change the organizational culture. Improve the relationship with customers. Service management best practices. Better management of services and integration. Business services IT Functions. IT and business strategic planning. Aligning and Integrating IT and business goals. Obtaining and retaining the right resources and skillsets. Measuring IT organization effectiveness. Developing business and IT relationships and partnerships. History of ITIL Here in this ITIL Tutorial, we will see some important landmarks from the history of ITIL: ITIL was first published in 1990 It was re-published on 1995 ITIL was introduced to North America in 1997 In 2002, V2 process-based book introduced In 2005, Work for version 3 begun In 2007, version 3 with 5 books ISO 20000 was launched. In 2011, upgrade version of V3 was released. In 2019, ITIL v4 was released Important Terminologies and Definitions used in ITIL Now in this ITIL Tutorial, we will learn some important terminologies and definitions used in ITIL: Roles: are defined as collections of particular responsibilities and privileges. It may be held by an individual or team. Service Owner: The entity which is accountable for the overall design, performance, integration, and improvement of a single service. Process Owner: Responsible for the overall design, performance, integration, improvement, and management of a single process. Product Manager: Accountable for development, performance, and quality check and the improvement of a group of related services. Service Manager: Responsible for the development, performance, and improvement of all services in the environment. Services: A means of delivering value to customers without the need to specify costs and risks. Access : The level and scope of the functionality of a service or data that the user is allowed to use. Capabilities: It is specialized skills of an organization apply to resources in order to create value. Functions: Self-contained subsets of an organization which is intended to accomplish specific tasks. Processes: Structured group of activities designed to achieve a specific objective. Resources: They are raw materials that contribute to a service, such as money, equipment, time, and staff. Features of ITIL Here are some important features of ITIL One language/terminology. ITIL is a means to deliver a consistent quality. Focus on IT. However, it is just not only suitable for IT. Existing activities and how to optimize them. Related process and tasks (roles). What ITIL is not? ITIL is not a complete blueprint, but just bricks and material from which you can build your own building depending upon your business needs. It is not a quick fix, but a set of processes that you need to build into the mind-set of your employees, and that must be continually updated and improved. It is not only another method of control but a way of setting up your organization so that it works towards the goals without controlling management. ITIL Process The ITIL Framework process contains the following stages: Service Strategy, Service Design, Service Transitions, Service Operations and Continual Service Improvement. The following figure shows important ITIL Framework stages: Important ITIL Stages Service Strategy: Service Strategy Operations ensure that services such as fulfilling user requests, working on service failures, fixing problems and carrying out routine operational tasks efficiently and effectively. Here, are important services comes under this stage: Finance management: The Financial Management services provides a means of understanding and controlling costs and opportunities associated with services. Service Portfolio Management: Service Portfolio Management helps you to organizes the process by which services are identified, evaluated, selected, and chartered. Demand Management: The Demand Management is concerned with understanding and influencing customer demand. It also involves User Profiles, which characterize various groups of users for a given service. Service Design: This stage ensures agreed service are delivered when, where, and at the defined cost. Here, are important services comes under this stage: Service Level Management: Service Level Management is deals with securing and managing agreements between customers and the service provider irrespective of the level of performance and reliability associated with specific services. Here, are important services comes under this stage: Availability Management: Availability Management service is concerned with the agreed-upon availability requirements as established in Service Level Agreements (SLA). Capacity Management: Capacity Management is focused with ensuring that at all times, the cost-effective capacity exists that meets or exceeds the demands of the business as established in Service Level Agreements IT Service Continuity Management: IT Service Continuity Management (ITSCM) process ensures that the service provider provides the minimum agreed-upon levels of service. It uses techniques like Business Impact Analysis (BIA) and Management of Risk (MOR). Service Catalog Management: The Service Catalog is a subset which contains services available to customers and users. Service Transitions: The goal of the Service Transition process is to build and deploy IT services. It also make sure that changes to services and Service Management ITIL processes are conducted in a coordinated way. Change Management: Change management activity controls the lifecycle of all the changes with minimum disruption to IT services. Service Asset and Configuration Management: The goal of this service is to maintain information about configuration items needed to deliver an IT service, including their relationships. Release and Deployment Management: This process helps you to plan, schedule, and control the movement of releases to conduct testing to live environments. It also ensures that the integrity of the live environment is protected and the correct components are released. Transition Planning and Support: This ITIL process mainly focuses on planning and coordinating the use of resources to deploy a major release within the expected cost, time and quality. Service Validation and Testing: This process helps to deployed releases and the resulting services able to meet expectations of the customer. Evaluation: Evaluation process helps you to assess major changes, like the introduction of a new service or a significant change to an existing service Knowledge Management: The objective of knowledge management service is to gather, analyze, store, and share knowledge and information within an organization. It helps improving efficiency by reducing the need to rediscover knowledge. Service Operations This ITIL stage focuses on meeting end-users’ expectations while balancing costs and discovering any potential problems. Service Desk: It is the main point of contact between users and the service provider. A service desk handles communication with the users and also manages incidents and service requests. Incident Management: The objective of Incident Management is to manage the lifecycle of all incidents. It also makes sure that services are returning back to the IT service to users as fast as possible. Problem Management: The objective of problem management is to manage the lifecycle of all problems. It helps IT organization to prevent incidents from happening and minimize the impact of incidents which cannot be prevented. Event Management: The object of event management is to make sure configuration items and services are continually monitored and to filter and categorize events to determine the specific actions. Request Fulfilment: The objective of request management is to fulfil service requests. In many cases, they are minor changes (for example, requests for changing a password). Technical Management: This function offers technical expertise and support for the management of the IT infrastructure. Application Management: Application Management is a service that is responsible for managing applications throughout their lifecycle. IT Service Operations: The goal is to maintain information about configuration items needed to deliver an IT service operations, including their relationships. Continual Service Improvement: It makes sure that IT services can recover and continue from a service incident. It helps to conduct business simper analysis to prioritize business recovery. ITIL v2. Vs. ITIL v3 Here are the major differences between ITIL v2. And ITIL v3. ITIL v2 ITIL v3 It is centred around the product, process, and people. It is centred around a product, process, people, and partners. The version provides a process-oriented approach The version provides Lifecycle based approach. In v2 of ITIL, security management is part of the evaluation. In v3, security management is a completely separate process. Focuses on service design and service strategy Equal attention to all ITIL processes Have 10 processes and 2 functions. Have 26 processes and 4 functions. Advantages of ITIL Here, are pros/benefits of using ITIL services Increase customer satisfaction Improve service availability Financial management Allows you to improve the decision-making process Helps you to control infrastructure services Helps to create a clear structure of an organization Applications of ITIL Here, are important areas where ITIL plays an effective IT and business strategic planning Implementing continuous improvement Obtaining and retaining the right resources and skillsets Reducing total cost and overall cost of ownership Demonstrating the business value to IT Helps you to measure IT organization effectiveness and efficiency Summary: ITIL definition: ITIL is a set of well-defined guidelines that helps Software professionals to deliver the best IT services. The ITIL full form is Information Technology Infrastructure Library. ITIL framework helps in improving project delivery success and managing constant business and IT change. ITIL was first published in 1990 and after modification it was republished in 1995 ITIL is a means to deliver a consistent quality. Remember that ITIL is not a complete blueprint, but just bricks and material from which you can build your own building, depending upon your business needs. Important ITIL stages are 1) Services Strategy 2) Service Design 3) Service Transition 3) Service Operations 4) Continual Service Improvement ITIL v2 is centred around the product, process, and people whereas ITIL v3 is centred around a product, process, people, and partners. ITIL services allows you to improve the decision-making process ITIL services are used for implementing continuous improvement in the organisation You Might Like: FTP vs SFTP: What is the Difference Between FTP and SFTP Difference between MAC address and IP address Collision Domain and Broadcast Domain Straight Through Cables vs Crossover Cables: Key Difference 15 BEST Computer Networking Books (2022 Update) Post navigation Report a Bug Previous Prev Next Continue Top Tutorials About About Us Advertise with Us Write For Us Contact Us Python Testing Hacking Career Suggestion SAP Career Suggestion Tool Software Testing as a Career Interesting eBook Blog Quiz SAP eBook SAP Java SQL Execute online Execute Java Online Execute Javascript Execute HTML Execute Python Selenium Cryptocurrency VPNs © Copyright - Guru99 2022 Privacy Policy | Affiliate Disclaimer | ToS Scroll to top Home TestingExpand child menu Expand Agile Testing JUnit Quality Center(ALM) Bugzilla HP Loadrunner RPA Cucumber Software Testing SAP Testing Database Testing Mobile Testing Selenium ETL Testing Mantis SoapUI JMeter Postman TEST Management JIRA QTP TestLink SAPExpand child menu Expand ABAP CRM PI/PO APO Crystal Reports PP Beginners FICO SD Basis HANA SAPUI5 BODS HR Security Tutorial BI/BW MM Solution Manager BPC QM Successfactors CO Payroll SAP Tutorial WebExpand child menu Expand Apache Java PHP SQL Server AngularJS JSP PL/SQL UML ASP.NET Kotlin PostgreSQL VB.NET C Linux Python VBScript C# MariaDB ReactJS Web Services C++ MS Access Ruby & Rails WPF CodeIgniter MySQL Scala SQLite DBMS Node.js SQL Perl JavaScript Must LearnExpand child menu Expand Accounting Embedded Systems Operating System Algorithms Ethical Hacking PMP Android Excel Tutorial Photoshop Blockchain Go Programming Project Management Business Analyst IoT Reviews Build Website ITIL Salesforce Cloud Computing Jenkins SEO COBOL MIS Software Engineering Compiler Design Movie VBA Courses Networking VPN Big DataExpand child menu Expand AWS Hive Power BI Big Data Informatica Qlikview Cassandra MicroStrategy Tableau Cognos MongoDB Talend Data Warehousing NiFi ZooKeeper DevOps OBIEE Pentaho HBase Live ProjectExpand child menu Expand Live Agile Testing Live Selenium Project Live HP ALM Live Selenium 2 Live Java Project Live Security Testing Live Mobile Testing Live Testing Project Live Payment Gateway Live Testing 2 Live PHP Project Live Telecom Live Projects Hub Live UFT/QTP Testing Live Python Project Live SEO Project AIExpand child menu Expand Artificial Intelligence PyTorch Data Science R Programming Keras TensorFlow NLTK Blog Toggle Menu Close Search for: Searchhttps://www.guru99.com/itil-framework-process.html What is ITIL? ITIL Process and ITIL Framework Tutorial Skip to content Home Testing Expand Agile Testing JUnit Quality Center(ALM) Bugzilla HP Loadrunner RPA Cucumber Software Testing SAP Testing Database Testing Mobile Testing Selenium ETL Testing Mantis SoapUI JMeter Postman TEST Management JIRA QTP TestLink SAP Expand ABAP CRM PI/PO APO Crystal Reports PP Beginners FICO SD Basis HANA SAPUI5 BODS HR Security Tutorial BI/BW MM Solution Manager BPC QM Successfactors CO Payroll SAP Tutorial Web Expand Apache Java PHP SQL Server AngularJS JSP PL/SQL UML ASP.NET Kotlin PostgreSQL VB.NET C Linux Python VBScript C# MariaDB ReactJS Web Services C++ MS Access Ruby & Rails WPF CodeIgniter MySQL Scala SQLite DBMS Node.js SQL Perl JavaScript Must Learn Expand Accounting Embedded Systems Operating System Algorithms Ethical Hacking PMP Android Excel Tutorial Photoshop Blockchain Go Programming Project Management Business Analyst IoT Reviews Build Website ITIL Salesforce Cloud Computing Jenkins SEO COBOL MIS Software Engineering Compiler Design Movie VBA Courses Networking VPN Big Data Expand AWS Hive Power BI Big Data Informatica Qlikview Cassandra MicroStrategy Tableau Cognos MongoDB Talend Data Warehousing NiFi ZooKeeper DevOps OBIEE Pentaho HBase Live Project Expand Live Agile Testing Live Selenium Project Live HP ALM Live Selenium 2 Live Java Project Live Security Testing Live Mobile Testing Live Testing Project Live Payment Gateway Live Testing 2 Live PHP Project Live Telecom Live Projects Hub Live UFT/QTP Testing Live Python Project Live SEO Project AI Expand Artificial Intelligence PyTorch Data Science R Programming Keras TensorFlow NLTK Blog Search Toggle Menu What is ITIL? ITIL Process and ITIL Framework Tutorial ByLawrence Williams Hours UpdatedJune 6, 2022 What is ITIL? ITIL is a set of well-defined guidelines that helps Software professionals to deliver the best IT services. ITIL guidelines are the best practices that are observed, gathered, and put together over time for delivering quality IT services. The full form of ITIL is Information Technology Infrastructure Library. Popular IT services covered by ITIL are Cloud services, backup, network security, Data processing and storage, managed print services, IT consulting, Help desk support, IOT etc. The systematic and structured approach of ITIL framework helps an organization in managing risk, establishing cost-effective practices, strengthening customer relations. All these eventually result in building a stable IT environment for your business. In this ITIL tutorial, you will learn: What is ITIL? Why ITIL is required? History of ITIL Important Terminologies and Definitions used in ITIL Features of ITIL What ITIL is not? ITIL Process Service Strategy: Service Design: Service Transitions: Service Operations Continual Service Improvement: ITIL v2. Vs. ITIL v3 Advantages of ITIL Application of ITIL Top ITIL Interview Questions and Answers Why ITIL is required? Here are some important reasons for using the ITIL method in business. Improving project delivery success. Managing constant business and IT change. Offering maximum value to customers. Enhancing resources and capabilities. Provide services that are useful and reliable. Planning processes with specific goals in mind. Clearly defines roles for each task. Deliver value for customers through services Integrate business and service strategies. Monitor, measure and optimize service provider performance. It helps to control IT investment and budget. Change the organizational culture. Improve the relationship with customers. Service management best practices. Better management of services and integration. Business services IT Functions. IT and business strategic planning. Aligning and Integrating IT and business goals. Obtaining and retaining the right resources and skillsets. Measuring IT organization effectiveness. Developing business and IT relationships and partnerships. History of ITIL Here in this ITIL Tutorial, we will see some important landmarks from the history of ITIL: ITIL was first published in 1990 It was re-published on 1995 ITIL was introduced to North America in 1997 In 2002, V2 process-based book introduced In 2005, Work for version 3 begun In 2007, version 3 with 5 books ISO 20000 was launched. In 2011, upgrade version of V3 was released. In 2019, ITIL v4 was released Important Terminologies and Definitions used in ITIL Now in this ITIL Tutorial, we will learn some important terminologies and definitions used in ITIL: Roles: are defined as collections of particular responsibilities and privileges. It may be held by an individual or team. Service Owner: The entity which is accountable for the overall design, performance, integration, and improvement of a single service. Process Owner: Responsible for the overall design, performance, integration, improvement, and management of a single process. Product Manager: Accountable for development, performance, and quality check and the improvement of a group of related services. Service Manager: Responsible for the development, performance, and improvement of all services in the environment. Services: A means of delivering value to customers without the need to specify costs and risks. Access : The level and scope of the functionality of a service or data that the user is allowed to use. Capabilities: It is specialized skills of an organization apply to resources in order to create value. Functions: Self-contained subsets of an organization which is intended to accomplish specific tasks. Processes: Structured group of activities designed to achieve a specific objective. Resources: They are raw materials that contribute to a service, such as money, equipment, time, and staff. Features of ITIL Here are some important features of ITIL One language/terminology. ITIL is a means to deliver a consistent quality. Focus on IT. However, it is just not only suitable for IT. Existing activities and how to optimize them. Related process and tasks (roles). What ITIL is not? ITIL is not a complete blueprint, but just bricks and material from which you can build your own building depending upon your business needs. It is not a quick fix, but a set of processes that you need to build into the mind-set of your employees, and that must be continually updated and improved. It is not only another method of control but a way of setting up your organization so that it works towards the goals without controlling management. ITIL Process The ITIL Framework process contains the following stages: Service Strategy, Service Design, Service Transitions, Service Operations and Continual Service Improvement. The following figure shows important ITIL Framework stages: Important ITIL Stages Service Strategy: Service Strategy Operations ensure that services such as fulfilling user requests, working on service failures, fixing problems and carrying out routine operational tasks efficiently and effectively. Here, are important services comes under this stage: Finance management: The Financial Management services provides a means of understanding and controlling costs and opportunities associated with services. Service Portfolio Management: Service Portfolio Management helps you to organizes the process by which services are identified, evaluated, selected, and chartered. Demand Management: The Demand Management is concerned with understanding and influencing customer demand. It also involves User Profiles, which characterize various groups of users for a given service. Service Design: This stage ensures agreed service are delivered when, where, and at the defined cost. Here, are important services comes under this stage: Service Level Management: Service Level Management is deals with securing and managing agreements between customers and the service provider irrespective of the level of performance and reliability associated with specific services. Here, are important services comes under this stage: Availability Management: Availability Management service is concerned with the agreed-upon availability requirements as established in Service Level Agreements (SLA). Capacity Management: Capacity Management is focused with ensuring that at all times, the cost-effective capacity exists that meets or exceeds the demands of the business as established in Service Level Agreements IT Service Continuity Management: IT Service Continuity Management (ITSCM) process ensures that the service provider provides the minimum agreed-upon levels of service. It uses techniques like Business Impact Analysis (BIA) and Management of Risk (MOR). Service Catalog Management: The Service Catalog is a subset which contains services available to customers and users. Service Transitions: The goal of the Service Transition process is to build and deploy IT services. It also make sure that changes to services and Service Management ITIL processes are conducted in a coordinated way. Change Management: Change management activity controls the lifecycle of all the changes with minimum disruption to IT services. Service Asset and Configuration Management: The goal of this service is to maintain information about configuration items needed to deliver an IT service, including their relationships. Release and Deployment Management: This process helps you to plan, schedule, and control the movement of releases to conduct testing to live environments. It also ensures that the integrity of the live environment is protected and the correct components are released. Transition Planning and Support: This ITIL process mainly focuses on planning and coordinating the use of resources to deploy a major release within the expected cost, time and quality. Service Validation and Testing: This process helps to deployed releases and the resulting services able to meet expectations of the customer. Evaluation: Evaluation process helps you to assess major changes, like the introduction of a new service or a significant change to an existing service Knowledge Management: The objective of knowledge management service is to gather, analyze, store, and share knowledge and information within an organization. It helps improving efficiency by reducing the need to rediscover knowledge. Service Operations This ITIL stage focuses on meeting end-users’ expectations while balancing costs and discovering any potential problems. Service Desk: It is the main point of contact between users and the service provider. A service desk handles communication with the users and also manages incidents and service requests. Incident Management: The objective of Incident Management is to manage the lifecycle of all incidents. It also makes sure that services are returning back to the IT service to users as fast as possible. Problem Management: The objective of problem management is to manage the lifecycle of all problems. It helps IT organization to prevent incidents from happening and minimize the impact of incidents which cannot be prevented. Event Management: The object of event management is to make sure configuration items and services are continually monitored and to filter and categorize events to determine the specific actions. Request Fulfilment: The objective of request management is to fulfil service requests. In many cases, they are minor changes (for example, requests for changing a password). Technical Management: This function offers technical expertise and support for the management of the IT infrastructure. Application Management: Application Management is a service that is responsible for managing applications throughout their lifecycle. IT Service Operations: The goal is to maintain information about configuration items needed to deliver an IT service operations, including their relationships. Continual Service Improvement: It makes sure that IT services can recover and continue from a service incident. It helps to conduct business simper analysis to prioritize business recovery. ITIL v2. Vs. ITIL v3 Here are the major differences between ITIL v2. And ITIL v3. ITIL v2 ITIL v3 It is centred around the product, process, and people. It is centred around a product, process, people, and partners. The version provides a process-oriented approach The version provides Lifecycle based approach. In v2 of ITIL, security management is part of the evaluation. In v3, security management is a completely separate process. Focuses on service design and service strategy Equal attention to all ITIL processes Have 10 processes and 2 functions. Have 26 processes and 4 functions. Advantages of ITIL Here, are pros/benefits of using ITIL services Increase customer satisfaction Improve service availability Financial management Allows you to improve the decision-making process Helps you to control infrastructure services Helps to create a clear structure of an organization Applications of ITIL Here, are important areas where ITIL plays an effective IT and business strategic planning Implementing continuous improvement Obtaining and retaining the right resources and skillsets Reducing total cost and overall cost of ownership Demonstrating the business value to IT Helps you to measure IT organization effectiveness and efficiency Summary: ITIL definition: ITIL is a set of well-defined guidelines that helps Software professionals to deliver the best IT services. The ITIL full form is Information Technology Infrastructure Library. ITIL framework helps in improving project delivery success and managing constant business and IT change. ITIL was first published in 1990 and after modification it was republished in 1995 ITIL is a means to deliver a consistent quality. Remember that ITIL is not a complete blueprint, but just bricks and material from which you can build your own building, depending upon your business needs. Important ITIL stages are 1) Services Strategy 2) Service Design 3) Service Transition 3) Service Operations 4) Continual Service Improvement ITIL v2 is centred around the product, process, and people whereas ITIL v3 is centred around a product, process, people, and partners. ITIL services allows you to improve the decision-making process ITIL services are used for implementing continuous improvement in the organisation You Might Like: FTP vs SFTP: What is the Difference Between FTP and SFTP Difference between MAC address and IP address Collision Domain and Broadcast Domain Straight Through Cables vs Crossover Cables: Key Difference 15 BEST Computer Networking Books (2022 Update) Post navigation Report a Bug Previous Prev Next Continue Top Tutorials About About Us Advertise with Us Write For Us Contact Us Python Testing Hacking Career Suggestion SAP Career Suggestion Tool Software Testing as a Career Interesting eBook Blog Quiz SAP eBook SAP Java SQL Execute online Execute Java Online Execute Javascript Execute HTML Execute Python Selenium Cryptocurrency VPNs © Copyright - Guru99 2022 Privacy Policy | Affiliate Disclaimer | ToS Scroll to top Home TestingExpand child menu Expand Agile Testing JUnit Quality Center(ALM) Bugzilla HP Loadrunner RPA Cucumber Software Testing SAP Testing Database Testing Mobile Testing Selenium ETL Testing Mantis SoapUI JMeter Postman TEST Management JIRA QTP TestLink SAPExpand child menu Expand ABAP CRM PI/PO APO Crystal Reports PP Beginners FICO SD Basis HANA SAPUI5 BODS HR Security Tutorial BI/BW MM Solution Manager BPC QM Successfactors CO Payroll SAP Tutorial WebExpand child menu Expand Apache Java PHP SQL Server AngularJS JSP PL/SQL UML ASP.NET Kotlin PostgreSQL VB.NET C Linux Python VBScript C# MariaDB ReactJS Web Services C++ MS Access Ruby & Rails WPF CodeIgniter MySQL Scala SQLite DBMS Node.js SQL Perl JavaScript Must LearnExpand child menu Expand Accounting Embedded Systems Operating System Algorithms Ethical Hacking PMP Android Excel Tutorial Photoshop Blockchain Go Programming Project Management Business Analyst IoT Reviews Build Website ITIL Salesforce Cloud Computing Jenkins SEO COBOL MIS Software Engineering Compiler Design Movie VBA Courses Networking VPN Big DataExpand child menu Expand AWS Hive Power BI Big Data Informatica Qlikview Cassandra MicroStrategy Tableau Cognos MongoDB Talend Data Warehousing NiFi ZooKeeper DevOps OBIEE Pentaho HBase Live ProjectExpand child menu Expand Live Agile Testing Live Selenium Project Live HP ALM Live Selenium 2 Live Java Project Live Security Testing Live Mobile Testing Live Testing Project Live Payment Gateway Live Testing 2 Live PHP Project Live Telecom Live Projects Hub Live UFT/QTP Testing Live Python Project Live SEO Project AIExpand child menu Expand Artificial Intelligence PyTorch Data Science R Programming Keras TensorFlow NLTK Blog Toggle Menu Close Search for: Search