https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/what-is-the-stack-size-estimation/ What is the Stack Size Estimation - GeeksforGeeks Skip to content Courses For Working Professionals LIVE DSA Live Classes System Design Java Backend Development Full Stack LIVE Explore More Self-Paced DSA- Self Paced SDE Theory All Development Courses Explore More For Students LIVE Competitive Programming GATE Live Course 2023 Data Science Explore More Self-Paced DSA- Self Paced CIP JAVA / Python / C++ Explore More School Courses School Guide Python Programming Learn To Make Apps Explore more All Courses Tutorials Algorithms Analysis of Algorithms Asymptotic Analysis Worst, Average and Best Cases Asymptotic Notations Little o and little omega notations Lower and Upper Bound Theory Analysis of Loops Solving Recurrences Amortized Analysis What does 'Space Complexity' mean ? Pseudo-polynomial Algorithms Polynomial Time Approximation Scheme A Time Complexity Question Searching Algorithms Sorting Algorithms Graph Algorithms Pattern Searching Geometric Algorithms Mathematical Bitwise Algorithms Randomized Algorithms Greedy Algorithms Dynamic Programming Divide and Conquer Backtracking Branch and Bound All Algorithms Data Structures Arrays Linked List Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Hashing Graph Advanced Data Structure Matrix Strings All Data Structures Interview Corner Company Preparation Top Topics Practice Company Questions Interview Experiences Experienced Interviews Internship Interviews Competititve Programming Design Patterns System Design Tutorial Multiple Choice Quizzes Languages C C++ Java Python C# JavaScript jQuery SQL PHP Scala Perl Go Language HTML CSS Kotlin ML & Data Science Machine Learning Data Science CS Subjects Mathematics Operating System DBMS Computer Networks Computer Organization and Architecture Theory of Computation Compiler Design Digital Logic Software Engineering GATE GATE Computer Science Notes Last Minute Notes GATE CS Solved Papers GATE CS Original Papers and Official Keys GATE 2021 Dates GATE CS 2021 Syllabus Important Topics for GATE CS Web Technologies HTML CSS JavaScript AngularJS ReactJS NodeJS Bootstrap jQuery PHP Software Designs Software Design Patterns System Design Tutorial School Learning School Programming Mathematics Number System Algebra Trigonometry Statistics Probability Geometry Mensuration Calculus Maths Notes (Class 8-12) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes Class 12 Notes NCERT Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution RD Sharma Solutions Class 8 Maths Solution Class 9 Maths Solution Class 10 Maths Solution Class 11 Maths Solution Class 12 Maths Solution Physics Notes (Class 8-11) Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes Class 11 Notes Chemistry Notes Class 8 Notes Class 9 Notes Class 10 Notes CS Exams/PSUs ISRO ISRO CS Original Papers and Official Keys ISRO CS Solved Papers ISRO CS Syllabus for Scientist/Engineer Exam UGC NET UGC NET CS Notes Paper II UGC NET CS Notes Paper III UGC NET CS Solved Papers Student Campus Ambassador Program School Ambassador Program Project Geek of the Month Campus Geek of the Month Placement Course Competititve Programming Testimonials Student Chapter Geek on the Top Internship Careers Jobs Apply for Jobs Post a Job Hire with Us Know about Jobathon Jobathon Practice All DSA Problems Problem of the Day Interview Series: Weekly Contests Bi-Wizard Coding: School Contests Contests and Events Practice SDE Sheet Curated DSA Lists Top 50 Array Problems Top 50 String Problems Top 50 Tree Problems Top 50 Graph Problems Top 50 DP Problems Write Come write articles for us and get featured Practice Learn and code with the best industry experts Premium Get access to ad-free content, doubt assistance and more! Jobs Come and find your dream job with us Geeks Digest Quizzes Geeks Campus Gblog Articles IDE Campus Mantri Home Saved Videos Courses GBlog Puzzles What's New ? Change Language Array Matrix Strings Hashing Linked List Stack Queue Binary Tree Binary Search Tree Heap Graph Searching Sorting Divide & Conquer Mathematical Geometric Bitwise Greedy Backtracking Branch and Bound Dynamic Programming Pattern Searching Randomized Related Articles ▲ Related Articles Types of Operating Systems LRU Cache Implementation Banker's Algorithm in Operating System Cache Memory in Computer Organization Page Replacement Algorithms in Operating Systems Functions of Operating System Introduction of Deadlock in Operating System Inter Process Communication (IPC) CPU Scheduling in Operating Systems Semaphores in Process Synchronization Introduction of Operating System - Set 1 Program for FCFS CPU Scheduling | Set 1 Program for Round Robin scheduling | Set 1 Mutex vs Semaphore Paging in Operating System Last Minute Notes – Operating Systems Difference between Intel and AMD 'crontab' in Linux with Examples Difference between Process and Thread Disk Scheduling Algorithms Program for Shortest Job First (or SJF) CPU Scheduling | Set 1 (Non- preemptive) Introduction of Process Synchronization Preemptive and Non-Preemptive Scheduling Random Access Memory (RAM) and Read Only Memory (ROM) Commonly Asked Operating Systems Interview Questions Cd cmd command Deadlock Prevention And Avoidance Virtual Memory in Operating System Thread in Operating System Difference between RAM and ROM Types of Operating Systems LRU Cache Implementation Banker's Algorithm in Operating System Cache Memory in Computer Organization Page Replacement Algorithms in Operating Systems Functions of Operating System Introduction of Deadlock in Operating System Inter Process Communication (IPC) CPU Scheduling in Operating Systems Semaphores in Process Synchronization Introduction of Operating System - Set 1 Program for FCFS CPU Scheduling | Set 1 Program for Round Robin scheduling | Set 1 Mutex vs Semaphore Paging in Operating System Last Minute Notes – Operating Systems Difference between Intel and AMD 'crontab' in Linux with Examples Difference between Process and Thread Disk Scheduling Algorithms Program for Shortest Job First (or SJF) CPU Scheduling | Set 1 (Non- preemptive) Introduction of Process Synchronization Preemptive and Non-Preemptive Scheduling Random Access Memory (RAM) and Read Only Memory (ROM) Commonly Asked Operating Systems Interview Questions Cd cmd command Deadlock Prevention And Avoidance Virtual Memory in Operating System Thread in Operating System Difference between RAM and ROM What is the Stack Size Estimation View Discussion Improve Article Save Article Like Article Last Updated : 29 Jul, 2022 What is stack size estimation? Stack size estimation is the process of forecasting the size of the stack that an operating system might use for internal use. The stack is a section of memory used by a program in order to store its own variables, temporaries, and so on. Stack size estimation uses the stack usage pattern and the operational characteristics of a given OS to predict the most probable capacity for storing those elements. According to the algorithm, a stack is a discrete memory region of fixed size. Programmers allocate space in the stack to temporary and reference variables. Each time they are called they require a memory allocation. The stack is also used to temporarily store control structures like loops, function arguments, and function return addresses. A program’s local variables are local (to the function) because they are only available when the corresponding functions are executing. Furthermore, there are no global variables that can be accessed by any function because these global variables would require much more memory since it would be necessary for each computer at all times to compute the address of all globals and store it in its own variable(s). Stack size estimation is a process of predicting the size of the stack memory required for the execution of a given program, to avoid over-filling the stack with data. First-order models for stack usage: A stack usage pattern is a measure of how the stack space is used by an application. This pattern can be classified according to two types: bounded and unbounded, from which the unbounded pattern has more to offer in terms of estimation accuracy over bounded ones. Although most operating systems have some boundary stack sizes, operating systems usually have an unstable boundary in the stack sizes due to their design and features that affect stack usage. Stack usage pattern has a large number of dimensions, but an application’s stack pattern can be identified in four dimensions namely: Depth and height – The depth is a measure that shows the number of local variables declared within the function of that application. The height is a measure that shows the number of calls from one level to another level Variable scope – Variable scope is used to find how many temporaries are allocated in a call, and this is significantly different from language because languages like C/C++ have no limitation on temporaries whereas others like Pascal do. Function scope, and Language. Different types of stacks: There are two types of stacks: User Stack System Stack User Stack: A user stack is a sequence of instructions that must be completed for a program to execute. The user stack is a part of the memory allocated for the running program, and it’s what enables programs to operate on pieces of data. A user stack is always allocated at least 1 memory page size and 32k of memory. A process needs one page of data for every instruction it executes. If a process runs longer than its allocated user stack, the program eventually loses control over where it has been directed by the operating system, and usually halts. User stack size estimation method: User stack size estimation method is a technique that is used in software engineering and computer applications development, which estimates the required stack size for program execution. The stack size estimation method is a technique for estimating the number of bytes of memory that will be needed to execute a given program on a particular machine. It uses timing data from the last three stages of the execution process: loading, running, and unloading. The time to load a program into memory is a good indication of the actual code size, since the loader reads in all of the instructions and data. The time to run the instructions is an indication of Stack Size. Finally, the time it takes to unload newly unused memory is an indication of how much memory that needs to be saved. This process can be repeated for every method and class in your program. To compare them with each other you can use one of the most popular methods called Cyclomatic Complexity. System Stack: A system stack can be thought of as “the space in which commands are being executed”. The system stack is part of the physical memory space, and it temporarily stores information associated with each new process that is created or switched to. System stack size estimation method: System stack size estimation method is a technique that is used to estimate the size of a program’s stack. System stack size estimation method can be used as a tool for “program optimization” and it will typically take into account the number of input and output parameters, plus the local variables. The estimation technique is especially useful if one wants to know how much memory is required by a particular program under certain conditions. The analysis technique can also be used when programming new software to estimate how much memory will be required. Conclusion: The amount of space used by variables in stack can be estimated on the data structure, memory footprint, and resource consumption. The space usage pattern and the operational characteristics of a given operating system are taken into account while making these estimates. The algorithm starts with an investigation on how much stack is enough to manipulate or store parameters and variables in common programming languages (for example, C/C++). Then it recommends a parameter to set at system initialization because some operating systems have higher overhead in setting down data structures than others. Finally, the algorithm determines the size of the stack space based on the type of application. The algorithm is a good tool for programming language programmers to predict stack usage by common applications. My Personal Notes arrow_drop_up Save Like Previous Difference Between Recovery ROM and Fastboot ROM Recommended Articles Page : Infix to Postfix using different Precedence Values for In-Stack and Out-Stack 22, Nov 18 Reversing a Stack with the help of another empty Stack 03, May 21 Difference between a process stack and a CPU stack 10, Jul 21 Find maximum in stack in O(1) without using additional stack 29, Mar 19 Stack Permutations (Check if an array is stack permutation of other) 21, Jul 17 Stack | Set 3 (Reverse a string using stack) 08, Feb 14 Sort a stack using a temporary stack 01, Jul 17 Sliding Window Maximum (Maximum of all subarrays of size k) using stack in O(n) time 25, Apr 19 What is the Variable stack size ? 26, Jun 22 Spaghetti Stack 29, Jun 11 Maximum possible sum of squares of stack elements satisfying the given properties 09, Oct 20 Stack and Queue in Python using queue Module 19, Jan 18 Introduction of Stack based CPU Organization 22, Aug 18 Check for balanced parenthesis without using stack 17, Jun 18 Level order traversal in spiral form | Using one stack and one queue 19, Jul 18 Sudo Placement[1.3] | Stack Design 25, Jul 18 Remove trailing zeros from the sum of two numbers ( Using Stack ) 30, Apr 21 Check if the elements of stack are pairwise sorted 16, Oct 18 Find maximum in a stack in O(1) time and O(1) extra space 24, Oct 18 Count the number of pop operations on stack to get each element of the array 26, Oct 18 Check if the given push and pop sequences of Stack is valid or not 26, Nov 18 Subroutine, Subroutine nesting and Stack memory 11, Dec 18 Print Stack Elements from Bottom to Top 12, Feb 19 Print leaf nodes in binary tree from left to right using one stack 11, Mar 19 Article Contributed By : tejaswipkle @tejaswipkle Vote for difficulty Easy Normal Medium Hard Expert Article Tags : memory-management Picked Operating Systems Stack Practice Tags : Operating Systems Stack Report Issue Writing code in comment? Please use ide.geeksforgeeks.org, generate link and share the link here. Load Comments What's New Master CS Subjects For SDE Preparation View Details Practice Problems, POTD Streak, Weekly Contests & More! View Details Complete Interview Preparation- Self Paced Course View Details Improve your Coding Skills with PracticeTry It! A-143, 9th Floor, Sovereign Corporate Tower, Sector-136, Noida, Uttar Pradesh - 201305 feedback@geeksforgeeks.org Company About Us Careers In Media Contact Us Privacy Policy Copyright Policy Learn Algorithms Data Structures SDE Cheat Sheet Machine learning CS Subjects Video Tutorials Courses News Top News Technology Work & Career Business Finance Lifestyle Knowledge Languages Python Java CPP Golang C# SQL Kotlin Web Development Web Tutorials Django Tutorial HTML JavaScript Bootstrap ReactJS NodeJS Contribute Write an Article Improve an Article Pick Topics to Write Write Interview Experience Internships Video Internship @geeksforgeeks , Some rights reserved We use cookies to ensure you have the best browsing experience on our website. By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understood our Cookie Policy & Privacy Policy Got It ! Start Your Coding Journey Now! Login Register